ALCHEMICA
Background/History: Nikki Wilcox was born a mutant with the power to transmute matter — but a power so weak she didn’t even know about it until one day in college. She was studying to be a geologist, and one of her professors was puzzling over a strange piece of stone he couldn’t identify. She decided to take a crack at it when he was out of the lab, hoping to figure out what it was and impress him.
When she touched the rock, something happened to her. It was as if she felt a flash through her entire body, and her head swam. She passed out at the lab table. When she awoke just a few seconds later, her hand casually brushed against a glass jar — and it suddenly transformed into a lump of coal!
Wilcox instinctively realized what had happened. There was power within her, the
power to remake and transmute things. And it was all because of that lump of rock. Her mind awash with visions of what she could do with her newfound powers, she took the rock — which she later learned was a piece of the fabled Philoso- pher’s Stone, though she’s never found out where it came from or how her professor got it — and left college for good.
She soon discovered that her powers were rela- tively weak unless she used the Stone to augment them. A responsible person could have found all sorts of legitimate ways to make a fortune with transmutation powers, but the Stone must have affected Wilcox’s mind, too. All she could think
of was everything she’d ever been denied in her life, everyone who’d ever done her wrong, and people who had far more money and things than they ever needed when she didn’t have anything. It wasn’t long before a new supervillainess calling herself Alchemica had hit the streets.
Unfortunately, the Philosopher’s Stone’s effect on her didn’t extend to making her superhuman in other ways. She was definitely a little stronger, tougher, and faster than the average human, but compared to many superhumans she was a weak- ling. Her first few crimes, which mostly involved
transmuting doors into air so she could go into jewelry stores and rob them, went well, but then she had a few very narrow escapes when heroes began looking for her. Eventually one caught up with her and she was quickly captured. She spent ten years in Stronghold as a model prisoner, but when the chance came to escape during the 2009 breakout she took it.
Personality/Motivation: Her years in Stronghold was educational for Alchemica. She had a lot of time to think about her powers and how she can use them to make a better life for herself. There’s a part of her that wants to find something construc- tive to do with them... but a much larger part that’s just as eager for money, and for the respect that being powerful brings. On top of that, her time in prison has also made her a little bitter. She’s seen and had done to her some very unpleasant things, and she thinks it’s very unfair that she got such a long sentence even though she only committed a few crimes and never hurt anyone. Her aggrava- tion and frustration combine with her natural greed to keep her on the criminal path — though unless someone trains and equips her better, or she joins a team, she’s not likely to succeed this time, either.
Quote: “Time for a change, hero. How about I change you into... a lizard?”
Powers/Tactics: Alchemica possesses broad (but weak) powers of transmutation. She can, literally, change anything into anything else: a steel door into a pile of cotton balls; a human being into a frog; a pocket comb into a four-carat diamond. Unfortunately, her powers are so weak and work so slowly that they’re mostly useless in combat, though she’s learned a few combat-effective ways to employ them (such as instantaneously Trans- forming air into clouds of gas around an oppo- nent’s head). Her piece of Philosopher’s Stone enhances them to the point where she could be a very dangerous opponent — if she had any tactical sense and if she weren’t so weak she usually goes down with one punch. With some proper training and a few pieces of equipment she could become a deadly combatant.
 
Champions Villains Volume Three: Solo Villains n Alchemica 7
    Val Char Cost Roll
Notes
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 12-
PRE Attack: 21⁄2d6
Phases: 3, 6, 9, 12 Total: 12 PD (8 rPD)
Total: 12 ED (8 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 79
12m
10 STR 16 DEX 14 CON 13 INT 10 EGO 13 PRE
0 11- 12 12- 4 12- 3 12- 0 11- 3 12-
6 OCV 15 5 DCV 10 3 OMCV 0
3 DMCV 0
4 SPD 20
4 PD
4 ED
5 REC 1
30END 2 10 BODY 0
30 STUN
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
aLCHeMICa
 2 2
5
25 Transmutation: Severe Transform 1d6 (anything into anything; heals back through another application of this or a similar power, or being touched with a piece of Philosopher’s Stone)
Improved Results Group (anything; +1), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Extra Time (Full Phase; -1⁄2)
0
45 Chunk Of Philosopher’s Stone: Severe Transform +3d6 0
Improved Results Group (anything; +1), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1), Extra Time (Full Phase; +1⁄2)
30 Combat Transmutations: Multipower, 60-point reserve All OAF (chunk of Philosopher’s Stone; -1)
3f 1) Air Into Knockout Gas: Blast 4d6 6
NND (defense is Life Support [Self-Contained Breathing]; +1), Area Of Effect (8m Radius; +1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1), Does Not Work In High Winds Or Rain (-1⁄4)
2f 2) Air Into Poisonous Gas: RKA 1d6 6
NND (defense is Life Support [Self-Contained Breathing]; +1), Does BODY (+1), Area Of Effect (8m Radius; +1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1), No Knockback (-1⁄4), Does Not Work In High Winds Or Rain (-1⁄4)
2f 3) Acid Rain: RKA 1d6 5
Constant (+1⁄2), Penetrating (+1⁄2), Indirect (Source Point is always above target; +1⁄4), Uncontrolled (see 6E2 147-48; +1⁄2); OAF (-1), Limited Range (16m; -1⁄4)
1f 4) Mind Control Drug: Mind Control 8d6 4
OAF (-1), Based On CON (-1), Limited Range (8m; -1⁄4), Does Not Work Versus Targets with Life Support (Self-Contained Breathing) (-1⁄4), Not In High Winds, Rain, Or Water (-1⁄4)
16 Armored Costume: Resistant Protection (8 PD/8 ED) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
Skills
4 +2 OCV with Transmutation
4 Chunk Of Philosopher’s Stone: +4 OCV with
Transmutation OAF (-1)
3 Deduction 12-
2 KS: Alchemy 11-
2 SS: Geology 11-
3 Stealth 12-
1 Streetwise 8-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 143 Total Cost: 222
400 Matching Complications (75)
10 Distinctive Features: Mutant (Not Concealable; Always Noticed; Detectable Only By Unusual Senses)
25 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI)
20 Psychological Complication: Code Versus Killing
(Common, Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Wants Money, Power, And
Respect (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Nikki Wilcox)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0
END

8 n Ambush
Hero System 6th Edition
Campaign Use: Alchemica’s “Philosopher’s Stone” isn’t actually an alchemical relic at all. Like Zorran the Artificer’s similar stone (see page 332), it’s
a fragment of the fuel core of the Mandraga-
lore, the super-weapon that destroyed Lemuria tens of thousands of years ago. This may impact Alchemica if she ever becomes well-known enough to attract the attention of certain persons (see below).
Alchemica’s not far gone enough into villainy that the PCs couldn’t turn her away from a life
of crime if they handle her right. She’d probably never become a hero, but she might find ways to use her powers legally and make good money. But convincing her to try will require care on the part of the PCs; she won’t respond well to orders, threats, or condescension.
To make Alchemica tougher, remove her dependence on the Philosopher’s Stone — just give her Severe Transform 4d6 straight up. You could also give her some gadgets and equipment so that she has better defenses, a Movement Power or two, and so on. To weaken her, get rid of her Combat Transmutations.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Alchemica’s “Philosopher’s Stone” would make her of great interest to several people. The first is Zorran the Artificer, the renegade Lemurian sorcerer who himself wields a similar Mandragalore fragment. The second are various Lemurian factions — from King Arvad to the now-reptilian rebels against his rule. All of them would love to obtain any parts of the Mandragalore’s fuel core if they can. Fortu- nately for Alchemica, she’s never become a promi- nent enough supercriminal for any of them to have heard of her. If that changes she may quickly find herself Hunted (particularly by Zorran, who’s much more capable of operating in human society than most of his people are).
As a relatively non-violent criminal who mostly just wants to steal things, Alchemica is a potential recruit for the Futurists, GRAB, and possibly some other organizations. GRAB in particular would find her a good fit if and when she realizes she’d be better off as part of a team than as a solo villain.
During her time in prison Alchemica corre- sponded with Jeff Baker of Trans-City Construc- tion (see CU 60) to find out more about what he does with his own similar powers. There’s a bit of romantic attraction between them, but she hasn’t been brave enough to follow up on it yet. If the PCs can persuade her to “go legit,” she might try to get a job with TCC.
Appearance: Alchemica is a pale-skinned white woman 5’9” tall with black hair reaching to the center of her back and brown eyes. She typically wears a green costume with black belt, boot, gloves, and cape (but no mask); she carries in her right hand a fist-sized chunk of Philosopher’s Stone that augments her natural powers.

ALCHEMICA FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Alchemica if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Alchemica is a supervillainess with powers of matter transmutation; she needs a piece of Philosopher’s Stone to make them work.
K/R: Her real name is Nikki Wilcox.
-1: Alchemica was incarcerated in Stronghold in 1999, but escaped during the 2009 breakout.
-2: One of Alchem- ica’s most common combat tactics is
to transform the
air into something less pleasant (like knockout gas or acid rain).
-6: Alchemica is
a mutant, though
a weak one; the piece of Philoso- pher’s Stone she wields significantly enhances her trans- mutative power

