ANUBIS
Background/History: Ethan Neritski used to
be nothing more than a graduate student in the Archaeology Department at Millennium City University. Disgruntled and bitter after years of having his somewhat... unusual theories about Egyptology casually dismissed by more established archaeologists and historians, he slowly but surely drifted from being a true scholar to being more of a looter of tombs and seller of antiquities on the black market.
During one of his expeditions in Egypt, Neritski would sneak away from the camp at night to do some digging of his own, hoping to find some valuable artifacts he could keep for himself and sell when he returned home. By dumb luck
— or perhaps the touch of fate — he found what he was looking for. By accident he stumbled into
a cleft in the rocks. There he found a well-hidden tunnel that led deep into a hill. After carefully opening several doors, he entered a lavish inner chamber.
Although the chamber was filled with many valuable items, Neritski had eyes only for the two on the ivory table in the center: a gold mask, in the style of a funerary mask, shaped like the jackal head of Anubis, god of the dead; and a tall staff of lapis lazuli with an ankh on top. Those two items alone would make him rich beyond his wildest dreams.
For fun, Neritski put the mask on his head. As the sides of it settled firmly onto his shoulders,
he felt something — some strange presence — enter his mind. Dazed and reeling, he tried to remove the mask, but it wouldn’t come off! Unable to withstand the assault on his mind, Neritski collapsed.
He awoke, hours later, with a new sense
of purpose. No longer was he Ethan Neritski, scorned Egyptologist — he was the avatar of the god of the dead! Somehow, the mask and ankh- staff had given him awesome power — the power to destroy, to take what he pleased, to humble his enemies before him! A long, chill laugh of evil escaped his lips as he flew away from the now- meaningless tomb to work his will in the world.
For many years Neritski committed crimes under the name of Anubis, convinced he was somehow serving the jackal-god’s purposes. But in 2005 the evil god Set revealed that he, not the god Anubis, was responsible for Anubis the supervil- lain’s power. To reward his faithful servant, and
to allow him to spearhead a plot to destroy Dr.
Ka in Vibora Bay, Set enhanced Anubis’s abilities and granted him even more powers. That scheme failed, but Anubis escaped capture once again. Ever since then, whenever Anubis uses his greater power or becomes angry his mask transforms
to resemble a Set-animal (a mythical beast from Egyptian myth with a curved snout and long, square-tipped ears).
Personality/Motivation: Ethan Neritski used to think he had become the avatar of Anubis, the Egyptian psychopomp and funerary god. Now he knows he is, instead, the chief servant on Earth of Set, the god of darkness and evil. Set has granted him vast power which he must sometimes use on his master’s behalf, but more often uses to fulfill his own desires. Typically his wishes run to simple crimes — the acquisition of luxuries and riches, the humbling of those who would insult, belittle, or humiliate him, and so on.
Quote: “The power of the gods is mine! Now you will feel their fire!”
Powers/Tactics: Anubis is not particularly tacti- cally astute, as supervillains go. He prefers to rely on sheer power and destructiveness instead of subtle maneuvering, and in fact has a tendency to tell his opponents what he’s going to do to them before he takes his Action.
Anubis’s powers all work through his lapis Ankh-Staff, but none of them take the Focus or OIAID Limitations because he can summon the Staff to himself at will — if a hero snatches it away from him, it vanishes from the hero’s grasp and re-appears in Anubis’s hand whenever he wants
it to. Anubis may allow the PCs to think they’ve stripped him of his power for a few Segments, then call the Staff back to him and get a Surprise Move bonus. The only way to take the Ankh-Staff from him permanently is to seal it behind potent Egyptian magical wards.
ANUBIS FACTS
Here are some facts characters and
NPCs might know about Anubis if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Anubis is a supervillain with Egyptian mystical powers, most channeled through his lapis lazuli Ankh-Staff.
K/R: Despite his name and appear- ance, Anubis actually serves the evil god Set. When he uses certain powers his mask changes shape to resemble the mythic Set-beast.
-4: Anubis has total control over his Ankh-Staff; if it’s taken from him he can instantly summon it back to himself.
-6: Anubis experi- ence intense pain when attacked with Life or Holy magics.
-8: Anubis also expe- riences intense pain when hit with Water attacks.
-10: His Secret Iden- tity is Ethan Neritski; he’s a former Millen- nium City Univer- sity archaeology graduate student who still dabbles in antiquities... often illegally.


Val Char Cost
40 STR 26 DEX 28 CON 15 INT 20 EGO 30 PRE
Roll
30
32 14- 18 15-
20
Notes
Lift 6,400 kg; 8d6 HTH damage [4]
9 OCV 30 9 DCV 30 3 OMCV 0 7 DMCV 12 7 SPD 50
12 PD 10 12 ED 10 15 REC 11 55END 7 15 BODY 5 60 STUN 20
Movement: Running: Flight:
12m
50m 1m-50 km
Teleportation:
Cost Powers
END
Anubis
Appearance: Anubis wears an Egyptian-style golden mask/helmet in the shape of a jackal’s head with evilly-glowing red eyes, a gold Egyptian kilt, gold bracers, and gold sandals. His chest, arms, and legs are bare. In his right hand he carries the Ankh-Staff, a six-foot tall staff with an ankh on top; the entire weapon is carved out of a single piece of lapis lazuli.
15 The Power Of Set: +30 PRE 0 Only For Fear-/Intimidation-Based Presence
Attacks (-1)
103 Armies Of The Dead: Summon up to four mummies
built on up to 410 Total Points (see HSB 286) 9
Slavishly Devoted (+1), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Arrives Under Own Power (-1⁄2), Summoned Being Must Inhabit Locale (-1⁄2)
108 Shield Of Set: Resistant Protection (24 PD/24 ED/
12 Mental Defense/12 Power Defense) 0 75 Wings Of Set: Flight 50m 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
Skills
20 +4 with Ankh-Staff Multipower
AK: Millennium City University 11- 2 CK: Millennium City 11-
KS: Ancient History 13-
6 KS: Egyptian Myth & Legend 15- 6 KS: Egyptology 15-
2 SS: Anthropology 11-
3 SS: Archaeology 12-
3 Stealth 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 512 Total Cost: 812
400 Matching Complications (75)
10 Distinctive Features: Mystic Aura (Not Concealable; Always Noticed; Detectable Only With Unusual Senses)
25 Hunted: the Champions (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
25 Psychological Complication: Must Fulfill The Will Of Set
(Very Common, Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Broadcasts Intentions In
Combat (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Ethan Neritski)
(Frequently, Major)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Life/Holy Magics
(Uncommon)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Water (Uncommon) Total Complications Points: 75
Experience Points: 412
5
10 13-
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 6d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 Total: 36 PD (24 rPD)
Total: 36 ED (24 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 300
17-
12- 15-
100 Ankh-Staff: Multipower, 100-point reserve 10f 1) Fire Of The Gods: Blast 16d6
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
9f 2) Hand Of The Gods: Telekinesis (40 STR)
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2) 6f 3) Curse Of Scorpions: RKA 1d6+1
NND (defense is appropriate Life Support [Immunity] or being in a hermetically-sealed environment like a force-field or powered armor suit; +1), Does BODY (+1), Constant (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Limited Range (20m; -1⁄4)
3f 4) Curse Of Blindness: Major Transform 8d6 (sighted human into blind human; heals back on Anubis’s command or if eyes are bathed in the waters of the Nile during a special ceremony)
All Or Nothing (-1⁄2), Limited Target (humans; -1⁄2), Limited Range (20m; -1⁄4)
10f 5) Pathway Of The Gods: Teleportation 50m MegaScale (1m = 1 km; +1)
9f 6) Fiery Pyramid Prison: Entangle 6d6, 6 PD/6 ED Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
10f 7) The Heat Of Set’s Desert: Blast 8d6
NND (defense is Life Support [Safe Environment: Intense Heat] or Fire/Heat powers; +1), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
4f 8) Warping Set’s Bones: RKA 4d6
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Limited Range (6m; -1⁄4), Only Works Against Metals (-1)

Anubis’s favored power is the Fire Of The Gods, a blue-colored blast of fire-like energy capable of damaging most superhumans. However, that’s not all he can do; he can also move objects without touching them, trap an opponent in a fiery pyramid, blind his foes, afflict an enemy with stinging scorpions, or blast someone with the heat of the Egyptian desert. If he’s anywhere near mummies (or similarly-preserved bodies), such as in a museum or cemetery, he can call forth up to four mummies to fight on his behalf.
Anubis often flies in combat; he regards it
as a majestic and useful manifestation of his divine powers. For quick escapes, he can open a doorway to the realm of the gods, step through, and emerge miles away (i.e., use his MegaScaled Teleportation).
Campaign Use: Anubis makes a good general villain for a number of plots, but he works best
as a springboard for a story arc focusing on the destructive will of the god Set. Eventually the PCs should discover his link with Set, and in turn find out the consequences of opposing such a powerful deity....
In his Secret Identity of Ethan Neritski, Anubis spends most of his time at Millennium City’s universities and museums, poking around in the dusty parts of research libraries and Egyptology displays. Player Characters of academic bent may encounter him from time to time without ever knowing he’s really a powerful supervillain.
To make Anubis more powerful, increase
his STR to 40 or 50, and add a few slots to his Multipower (be careful not to strain his END use too much), and perhaps boost the Armies Of The Dead power to let him Summon more mummies at once. To weaken him, reduce his Multipower reserve (to 75 or 60 points), get rid of his Armies Of The Dead power, and consider lowering his SPD to 5.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: At least two other prominent Champions Universe supervil- lains — Necrull (see CV1) and the Curse (see page 73) — have powers that may (or may not) be asso- ciated with Set. If they are gifts from the god of darkness, then he may at some point have Anubis team up with either or both of them to launch some scheme of destruction or conquest. Simi- larly, he’s worked a time or two with the Living Sphinx (page 188), who willingly obeys him.
Anubis doesn’t get along with DEMON, which has twice tried (and failed) to steal his Ankh-Staff for its own. On the other hand he has worked profitably with the Black Paladin and would be willing to do so again. He sometimes hires merce- nary villains to help him with his schemes; if he’s got something going on near water he often hires Leviathan, whom he seems to regard as some sort of avatar or unknowing servant of the god Apep.