ARMADILLO
Background/History: In 1993, fresh out of the Juvenile Detention Center, Randall Gordon joined the Army. He’d spent most of his young life beating up other kids for their lunch money; he figured he might as well get paid for being violent.
Eager to make some extra bucks following basic training, Gordon volunteered for some- thing called Project Sunburst, a wargame of some sort. It turned out to be an unscrupulous experi- ment to test soldiers’ ability to survive a nuclear strike. When the blast hit, Gordon passed out. He awakened in the hospital, where he learned from the doctors that he was one of the lucky ones — most of the other test subjects had died right away. But the docs couldn’t find a thing wrong with
him — just some minor changes in his brainwave patterns.
An astute Army scientist suggested that the changes to his neurochemistry might make Gordon perfect for the Man Amplification Project, the Army’s effort to develop cheap, practical powered armor for soldiers. So far MAP personnel hadn’t had any success creating a suit the ordinary ground-pounder could use, due to limitations in the cybernetic technology they’d invented. Maybe with Gordon it would be different. Sensing the possibilities, Gordon agreed.
It worked like a charm — Gordon’s modified brain could control the armor! While the MAP scientists were congratulating themselves and talking about how much good they could do with the armor, Gordon turned the blasters on them. Do good? Ha! With a weapon like this, he could steal a lot more than lunch money. After smashing his way out of the MAP facilities, he stalked
off into the night and became the supervillain
Armadillo.
Personality/Motivation: After nearly ten years
as Armadillo, a decade mixing successful crime sprees with periodic stays in prison, Gordon still gets a big kick out of being Armadillo. He loves all the powers the suit gives him, and usually can’t resist announcing what he’s about to do to the rest of the world (so everyone will be impressed, natu- rally). Despite the problems this causes him, he still does it, time and again. Eventually he’ll learn not to (i.e., spend some Experience Points to buy off that Psychological Complication).
Armadillo’s other big weakness is his inability to withstand the charms of women. He’s got no problems fighting superheroines — they can give as good as they get, after all — but any woman who smiles at him sweetly can twist him around her little finger. (When a female character uses an Interaction Skill or pleasant Presence Attack on him, double the effectiveness of any Striking Appearance she has that’s defined as “beauty.”)
Randall chose the name Armadillo because of his suit’s tunneling capability (and armadilloes do sort of have armor, too). Anyone who laughs at the name, or mocks him and his armor, gets blasted.

ARMADILLO FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Armadillo if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: Armadillo is
a powered armor wearing villain. His armor allows him to burrow through the ground at great speed; it’s also equipped with a blaster array and lethal claws.
K/R: Armadillo’s
real name is Randall Gordon; he’s a former juvenile delinquent and US Army soldier.
-2: Armadillo often tries to use his burrowing and leaping abilities to “outflank” his opponents and obtain a tactical advantage.
-6: Armadillo’s armor doesn’t protect against mental or magnetic attacks as well as it should due to painful cybernetic “feedback.”
-8: Gordon was involved in a myste- rious Army program called “Project Sunburst” that also seems to have given birth to the supervillain Sunburst.

Quote: “Now I’m gonna knock you right through that wall with my Wrist Blasters!”
Powers/Tactics: Armadillo’s powers all derive from his suit of battle armor, which comes equipped with three different blasters (located in the palms, on the wrists, and on the shoulders), the ability to burrow through the earth at tremendous speeds (and likewise to tear or tunnel through thick walls and the like), and various defensive and sensory systems. He’s become skilled at using the suit, and years of repairing and modifying it have made him a pretty good tinkerer.
In combat Armadillo usually relies on his Palm Blasters, switching to the other blasters only when he needs to cut through heavy Resistant Protec- tion (Wrist Blasters) or take out large numbers
of relatively lightly-protected foes (Shoulder Blasters). He’s not much of a tactician; he just starts blasting away at the most convenient target, or does whatever his employer orders him to do.
Armadillo takes full advantage of his suit’s ability to dig tunnels. Not only is it a great way to escape, but by making his tunnel twist and turn he can set up ambushes for pursuing heroes and then collapse the tunnel on them. In battle, if there’s no cover available and he doesn’t need to be mobile, he’ll tunnel down about 1m to create some cover for himself.
Unfortunately the Armadillo suit has some weaknesses. The cybernetic systems that control it aren’t as efficient or well-protected as they should be, so magnetic attacks or certain mental attacks cause the wearer to suffer agonizing headaches. Armadillo hopes to get this problem fixed eventu- ally (i.e., when he can buy off his Vulnerabilities with Experience Points).
Campaign Use: Armadillo is a pretty straightfor- ward mercenary villain. He’ll work for anyone who can pay him or give him a reasonable shot at some major loot, so you can easily work him into other villain teams or have a more powerful villain hire him for “backup.” His ties to Project Sunburst

might also provide some scenario fodder — maybe the master villain Sunburst will try to recruit him for his organization, or perhaps a PC also has some connection to that ill-fated experiment.
If Armadillo needs to be more powerful for your game, you have several options. First, you could increase his STR, making him more of a “brick” than he is now. (You may also need to bump up his defenses a bit.) Second, you could give his suit more weapons, or make the ones he already has more powerful. Right now he’s just got a lot of blasters, which doesn’t give him too many tactical options. Third, you could give him the Tactics and Teamwork Skills and make him a smarter combatant. To weaken him, reduce his defenses some, drop his Tunneling to 16m (or less), and maybe reduce his Multipower to a 50 Active Point reserve.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Armadillo isn’t particularly confrontational and is pretty well-adjusted (as supervillains go...), so he tries to maintain at least “professionally cordial” relations with other villains he works with. For example, he’s worked with the Ultimates a few times and
is on good terms with them; he’s also teamed up with SARGON for some jobs. Similarly, Sunburst has hired him a few times as a way of maintaining contact in the hope of recruiting him for Project Sunburst. That’s almost certainly never going
to happen, though, which may eventually make Sunburst his enemy.
Armadillo has a sort of “friendly rivalry” with Ankylosaur over who has the better armor. Each time one of them is in the news for succeeding with a crime, they meet up so the other can buy him a beer. But that, too, has turned into a compe- tition to find the worst possible microbrews or old beers to inflict on the “winner.”
On the other hand, Armadillo has a similar rivalry with Warhammer that’s decidedly less friendly. Each of them has said some insulting things about the other’s armor; at this point a confrontation to discover who’s the better villain is practically inevitable.
Appearance: The Armadillo armor is a fairly big and bulky suit of powered armor colored a sort of rust red (with a grey chest-plate); several parts of it have a sort of “scale” motif reminiscent of its name- sake. The power pack and systems in the back of the suit rise up over the wearer’s head, giving him something of the look of a burrowing animal. The Wrist Blasters mounted on the back of the hand are the most prominent weapons; the Palm Blasters and Battle Claws are also easily seen when he holds his hands right, but the Shoulder Blasters don’t pop out of their compartments until they’re needed. Armadillo often wears a satchel to carry loot in, since he needs his hands free to tunnel.
Randall Gordon himself is 5’11” tall and weighs about 200 pounds — he’s no muscleman, but he doesn’t have a lot of fat on him either; he’s mostly big-boned and beefy. He has blonde hair and blue eyes, sports a moustache, and usually wears casual clothes.

Champions Villains Volume Three: Solo Villains n Armadillo 19
Val Char Cost
Roll
Notes
Lift 100 kg (25 tons); 2d6 (10d6) HTH damage [1 (5)]
PER Roll 12-
PRE Attack: 2d6 (3d6)
Phases: 6, 12 (3, 5, 8, 10, 12) Total: 26 PD (20 rPD)
Total: 24 ED (20 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 123
10+40 STR 10+8 DEX
10+18 CON 13 INT 11 EGO 10+5 PRE
27*
11* 12* 3
11-
11- 11- 12-
(19-)
(13-) (15-)
(12-)
3+3 OCV 10* 3+3 DCV 10* 3 OMCV 0 3 DMCV 0
2+3 SPD 6 PD
4 ED
9 REC 20 END 15 BODY 40 STUN
Movement:
Cost Powers
20*
4 2 5 0 5
10
ARMADILLO
9
5
3 3 6
2 2 2 2
10
Battle Armor: Life Support (Self-Contained Breathing; Safe Environments: Low Pressure/Vacuum, High Pressure) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
Leg Servoes: Leaping +16m (20m forward,
10m upward) 1 OIF (-1⁄2)
IR Sensors: Infrared Perception (Sight Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
UV Sensors: Ultraviolet Perception (Sight Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
Communications Suite: HRRP (Radio Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2), Affected As Sight/Hearing Group As Well
As Radio Group (-1⁄2)
Talents
Onboard Computer Systems: Absolute Range Sense OIF (-1⁄2)
Onboard Computer Systems: Absolute Time Sense OIF (-1⁄2)
Onboard Computer Systems: Bump Of Direction OIF (-1⁄2)
Onboard Computer Systems: Lightning Calculator OIF (-1⁄2)
Skills
+2 with Blaster Array Multipower
1 11-
3*
11-
*: OIF (battle armor; -1⁄2)
Running: Leaping: Tunneling:
12m 20m 24m
36 Power Supply: Endurance Reserve (160 END, 21 REC) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
40 Blaster Array: Multipower, 60-point powers all OIF (battle armor; -1⁄2)
3f 1) Palm Blasters: Blast 12d6 6 OIF (-1⁄2), Activation Roll 14- (-1⁄4)
3f 2) Wrist Blasters: RKA 21⁄2d6 6 Armor Piercing (x2; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2), Activation Roll
14- (-1⁄4)
3f 3) Shoulder Blasters: Blast 8d6 6
Autofire (5 shots; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2), Activation Roll 14- (-1⁄4)
3f 4) Tunneling Mode: Tunneling 24m through 12 PD material 5 OIF (-1⁄2)
17 Battle Claws: HKA 1d6 (41⁄2d6 with STR) 0 Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END;
+1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2)
40 Battle Armor: Resistant Protection (20 PD/20 ED) 0
OIF (-1⁄2)
7 Flashguard Helmet: Sight Group Flash Defense
(10 points) 0
OIF (-1⁄2)
7 Flashguard Helmet: Hearing Group Flash Defense
(10 points) 0
OIF (-1⁄2)
7 Defense Field: Power Defense (10 points) 0
3
2
2
1
2
2
3
3
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 228 Total Cost: 351
OIF (-1⁄2)
END
Electronics 12-
KS: Professional Sports 11-
KS: The Superhuman World 11- KS: The US Army 8-
Navigation (Land) 12-
PS: Soldier 11-
Mechanics 12-
Streetwise 11- (12-)
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: US Army (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Psychological Complication: Announces His Actions
Before Taking Them (Very Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Randall Gordon)
(Frequently, Major)
20 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Mental Blasts (Common) 10 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Magnetic Attacks
(Uncommon)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0