22 n Arrowhead Hero System 6th Edition
AUTOMATON
Val Char Cost Roll Notes
40 Energy Form: Life Support (Total, including Longevity: Immortality) 0 45 Energy Form: Teleportation 40m, x4 Noncombat 4 8 Merging: Clinging (normal STR) 0
Affects Physical World (+2); Only To Remain Merged With A Machine If It’s Moved Involuntarily (-2), Linked (to Desolidification; -1⁄2)
Skills
15 +5 with Computer Programming, Electronics, and System Operations
3 Bugging 14-
3 Combat Driving 13-
3 Combat Piloting 13-
3 Computer Programming 14-
3 Cryptography 14-
3 Electronics 14-
3 Inventor 14-
3 CK: Millennium City 14-
3 KS: High-Tech Companies 14-
3 Mechanics 14-
17 Power 21-
3 SS: Robotics 14-
3 Security Systems 14-
3 Systems Operation 14-
16 TF: Common Motorized Ground Vehicles, Science
Fiction & Space Vehicles, Agricultural & Construc- tion Vehicles, Combat Aircraft, Helicopters, Jetskis, Large Motorized Boats, Large Planes, Railed Vehicles, Small Motorized Boats, Small Planes, Snowmobiles, Submarines, Tracked Military Vehicles, Two-Wheeled Motorized Ground Vehicles, Wheeled Military Vehicles
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 870 Total Cost: 997
400 Matching Complications (75)
5 Distinctive Features: devices “possessed” by Automaton have a distinctive high-end electromagnetic spectrum signature (Not Concealable; Noticed and Recogniz- able; Detectable Only By Unusual Senses)
15 Hunted: the Champions (Infrequently, Mo Pow, Harshly Punish)
35 Physical Complication: No Physical Form (All the Time, Fully Impairing)
10 Physical Complication: can be affected by Mental Powers that affect either the Human or Machine class of minds (Infrequently, Slightly Impairing)
20 Psychological Complication: Regards Himself As A God Of Machinery (Common, Total)
20 Psychological Complication: Greedy (Very Common, Strong)
10 Psychological Complication: Hates “Meat People” But Secretly Wants A Body Again (Common, Moderate)
5 Rivalry: Professional, with other cyberkinetics Total Complications Points: 75
Experience Points: 597
0 STR -10 9- 18 DEX 16 13- 10 CON 0 11- 25 INT 15 14- 18 EGO 8 13- 20 PRE 10 13-
5 OCV 10 4 DCV 5 8 OMCV 15 7 DMCV 12
30
Lift 25 kg; 0d6 HTH damage [0]
PER Roll 14- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 0 PD (0 rPD)
Total: 2 ED (0 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 127
5 SPD 0 PD
-2 0 6 90 END 14 10 BODY 0 16 STUN -2
2 ED 10 REC
Movement: Running: Teleportation:
Cost Powers
12m 40m
120 Machine Interface: Telepathy 13d6 (Machine class of minds)
Affects Physical World (+2), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); No Range (-1⁄2), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
120 Machine Control: Mind Control 12d6 (Machine class
10
of minds) 9
Affects Physical World (+2), Telepathic (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); No Range (-1⁄2), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
115 Machine Deactivation: Dispel 18d6 9
Variable Effect (any one Electrical or Mechanical Device power at a time; +1⁄2), Affects Physical World (+2), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); No Range (-1⁄2), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
102 Machine Manipulation: Telekinesis (30 STR),
Fine Manipulation 8
Affects Physical World (+2), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); No Range (-1⁄2), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
140 Machinery Abilities: Variable Power Pool, 80 Pool +
80 Control Cost var
Affects Physical World (+2); all slots OIF (appropriate machines or devices within 40m; -1⁄2), Limited
Class Of Powers Available (only abilities of nearby devices; -1⁄2)
53 Incorporeal: Desolidification (affected by electromag-
netic manipulation) 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2), Persistent (+1⁄4), Inherent (+1⁄4); Always On (-1⁄2)
40 Incorporeal: Invisibility to Sight, Hearing and Smell/
Taste Groups 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2), Persistent (+1⁄4), Inherent (+1⁄4); Always On (-1⁄2)
AUTOMATON
Background/History: Arthur Judge was a Millen- nium City researcher developing cybernetic interfaces between the human brain and computer devices. One day he was hooked into one of his experimental prototypes when a freak electrical storm caused a massive power surge through the system. The resulting blast incinerated his body, but his mind was somehow transformed into
a coherent, invisible “cloud” of oddly-charged electromagnetic particles. He soon discovered
he could “possess” any electronic or mechanical device and use it as a “body.” Driven mad by the experience, Judge believed he’d become a god, far superior to his former “meat” existence.
Initially he used his powers capriciously for his own amusement, first by causing machines to harass and embarrass people who had annoyed him previously. Slowly but surely he gradu-
ated to killing people — he found the havoc and fear he created energizing. But when he seized control of Millennium City’s “Smart Roadway” system, he was tracked down by the combined efforts of Dr. Silverback and the cyberkinetic FBI agent Teknique, who defeated him and trapped his consciousness in a magnetic bottle. Automaton later escaped and took Teknique hostage, intending to dissect her and learn how she was able to control him, but the Champions located and rescued her, in the process blowing up a computer that Automaton was inside before he could escape. His current whereabouts, if he survived the destruction, are unknown.
Personality/Motivation: Arthur Judge has become completely deranged as a result of his transforma- tion. He considers himself the first member of
a new, perfect race, far superior to the humans around him who now only exist for his entertain- ment and live and die at his whim... but secretly, in his heart of hearts, he yearns to have a physical form once more.
Quote: “Do you have any idea how disgusting your bodies are? Meat and blood, fluids and brains. I can barely stand to look at you.”
Powers/Tactics: Automaton is a disembodied mechanical “spirit” who can possess any machine of sufficient complexity (the GM decides if a machine is susceptible to his control, but typically any powered device at least as complicated as a blender or toaster can support his entire intellect). Once he’s merged with a machine, he can physi- cally control it, providing it with power from his own essence if necessary, and using it to perform any task it could manage itself as well as some it clearly couldn’t without Automaton manipulating its parts. For example, if Automaton possessed
a CD player, he could play music with ease, but might also be able to fire discs from its main drive as missiles, or use the laser that reads the discs as a small but nasty short-range RKA.
Automaton’s Mental Powers work against
the Machine class of minds. He himself can be affected by Mental Powers that work against either the Human or Machine class of minds.
Campaign Use: Automaton is a foe your PCs should have difficulty coming to grips with, given how ubiquitous technology has become in the modern day (not to mention how common it is in most superhero settings). The devices the heroes themselves have probably offer him plenty of opportunities for mayhem. Make sure the heroes have a tough time defeating him, but don’t make it impossible for them to affect him.
If the campaign has a defined “cyberspace” element, then the GM should give Automaton an Extra-Dimensional Movement power or other appropriate ability that lets him access or “enter” it easily.
To make Automaton a tougher foe, give him
a limited ability to possess “meat” bodies as well — maybe half to two-thirds as many dice in his Mental Powers. He finds it disgusting to use those abilities, but sometimes it’s necessary. To weaken him, give him various Physical Complications and Susceptibilities that make it easy to trap or hurt him with focused electromagnetic pulses, magnetic bottles, and the like.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Automaton hates (but secretly envies) all “meat beings” and wants nothing to do with them. He particularly loathes cyberkinetics (such as Cybermind and the Engineer) because they can effectively fight (and even control) him, and sentient robots/computers.
Appearance: Automaton has no solid physical presence and can only be detected outside of a machine by specialized equipment capable of analyzing electromagnetic energy in an area. When he possesses a machine, he occasionally uses his telekinetic control to reshape unneces- sary components into a crude approximation of a human face because he enjoys the terror he can cause this way.
AUTOMATON FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Automaton if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Automaton is a living “computer program,” a human
being whose mind has been transformed into software. He can possess, control, and manipulate machines, but has no physical body.
K/R: Automaton is presumed dead after being in a computer that was destroyed during a battle with the Champions... but of course it’s impossible to prove since he has no body.
-1: Automaton can only be detected outside of a machine with specialized equipment capable of analyzing electromagnetic energy in an area. Devices he’s “possessing” have a distinctive high-end electromagnetic spectrum signature.
-10: Automaton was formerly Arthur Judge, a Millennium City cybernetics researcher.