BLACK HARLEQUIN
Background/History: “Rinaldo, you get down into the basement right now!”
“But, Momma....”
“But, nothing! I’ve seen the way you’ve been looking at your sisters — they’ve seen it too. You’re making everyone uncomfortable, you little pervert. Since you can’t behave yourself properly around other people, I’m not going to let you be around other people. From now on, you live in the basement.”
“But, Momma....”
That was when she slapped him. When she was done slapping him, she dragged him over to the basement door, shoved him down the stairs, and slammed the door shut.
It took a little groping around to find the lightswitch, but eventually the weak bulb hanging above his father’s old workbench flickered on. A thick coating of dust lay over everything; no one had used the bench or the tools since Poppa died a few years ago. Some half-completed toys still sat there, crippled and forlorn.

Wiping away his tears, Rinaldo pulled out a shaping knife and decided to make something. He still remembered some of what Poppa had taught him. If the girls didn’t want him around, fine. He’d make his own world, full of people who did.
HHHH H
Case Report 57J-23815, Rinaldo Maretti, parents deceased. Subject, aged 16, was remanded to the care of the state after his mother and sisters were found brutally murdered in their home, assailants unknown. The decedents displayed numerous tiny slash and stab wounds throughout their bodies, and bled to death following the brutal attacks. Subject had been living in his family’s basement, with only a large collection
of self-made models and puppets to keep him entertained. When asked why he was living in the basement, subject responded, “Because Momma told me to.” Inquiries are being made regarding a foster home.
HHHH H
The foster home didn’t quite work out. The Reynolds were nice enough people, he supposed, but so serious! They never seemed to have any fun, and they tried to take away his toys. He didn’t stay there for very long. After all, the Official People wouldn’t be likely to let him go if they found him around a second set of bodies. And there were so many other games to play, he didn’t want anyone to stop him. The world was such a fun place!
All he really needed were a few supplies, and the Escapades could begin.
HHHH H
“The city was shocked today by the daring daylight robbery of Hanson’s Jewelry Store by a troop of toy soldiers. An official police statement, issued earlier this afternoon, indicated that the soldiers, actually small robots, were armed with deadly miniature guns and killed four people during the course of the robbery. The robber, whoever he really is, made off with gems and jewelry worth over three million dollars.”
HHHH H
The police weren’t a problem. Thickwitted and slow, they never could manage to stop one of his Escapades before he was done. Those costumed crimefighters, though — they were another thing altogether. They looked so pretty, almost like big wind-up dolls, but they were no fun at all. The first time he met one, he barely got away; none of his little toys would hurt the big, annoying fellow. But he was learning to be more careful. They just wanted to lock him up, like Momma did, and he didn’t want any of that. There are too many Esca- pades yet to have!

Personality/Motivation: Utterly sociopathic thanks to being raised by a repressed, domi- neering mother, the Black Harlequin expresses
his antisocial tendencies through his twisted, macabre sense of humor. To him, a Joke isn’t really a Joke unless the punchline hurts someone, and an Escapade (as he calls his crimes) isn’t really an Escapade unless it involves death and destruction. Unpredictable and manic, he may caper and jig one moment, singing a merry tune all the time, and the next casually slash a few throats because his “accompanists” weren’t singing along loudly enough. He particularly hates to see people sad or upset. Everyone should be jolly around a harle- quin! Melancholy expressions tend to attract his attention — which is never pleasant. Often the hapless victim winds up dead, a bloody Glasgow smile carved into his cheeks by one of the Black Harlequin’s knives.
Quote: “Laugh, and the world laughs with you... unless you’re laughing at other peoples’ suffering, in which case the world is never as amused as I am.”
Powers/Tactics: The Black Harlequin does his fighting with gadgets, most of which resemble children’s playthings. (His Jester’s Cane is obvi- ously a weapon, even if the heroes don’t realize
it until they’ve been on the receiving end of a Bodacious Wallop.) He’s best known for his Attack Toys, tiny robots in wickedly whimsical forms — toy planes armed with real bombs, teddy bears wielding butcher knives, robots with little built-in guns, and so on. In game terms, these function
as an Indirect attack, since they can approach the target from just about any angle. The Harlequin can only carry six of them, and their wind-up motors only last for one Turn each. They are Breakable OAFs, and as such have 11 DEF, so a single attack that does 12 BODY to one is enough to destroy the toy (causing the Black Harlequin much anguish).
Many of the Black Harlequin’s attacks have Limited Range; he has to be within 2-10m (depending on the gadget) to hit a target with them. Since he’s averse to suffering pain, he usually keeps his Combat Skill Levels in DCV on these occasions.
Campaign Use: The Black Harlequin works best in a sort of quasi-master villain role. He doesn’t fit in with most teams of villains, but he’s too weak by himself to challenge most superhero teams. So, you need to provide him with the right resources — thuggish henchmen, hidden bases, gadgets and gizmos — to make him a good match for the PCs. Alternately, you can arrange the scenario so the Black Harlequin outthinks the heroes and controls the action from the get-go, dragging them willy- nilly all over the city in response to his bizarre clues and threats.
During the winter holiday season Black Harlequin often attacks the city by leaving boxes of Attack Toys here and there for unsuspecting children to open. For even greater mayhem he
unleashes the awesome might of Clarence, a “teddy bear” large and powerful enough to destroy buildings (use the Giant Ape character sheet on HSB 394 for Clarence). This is a “plot device” rather than something he creates with his VPP, and for him it’s unusually predictable, but it’s his favorite way to celebrate Christmas.
As a Hunter, the Black Harlequin employs his macabre humor to the full. He strikes through practical jokes and other such surprises, rather than attacking directly, so his “playmate” soon becomes extremely paranoid. A “joke” with a double-twist to it is even more fun. For example, he might send the hero a pie-in-the-face-o-gram, but before the messenger sets out to make the delivery, substitute a pie with acidic toppings for the normal delightful dessert. If the heroes attack and harm the innocent messenger, the Harlequin wins twice over.
To make the Black Harlequin more powerful, increase the size of his Gadget Pool (thus increasing his flexibility), and maybe allow him to change it in combat instead of just at his labora- tory. Increasing his SPD to 6 might also be worth considering. To weaken him, get rid of the Gadget Pool altogether.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Supervillains aren’t the most balanced and stable group in the world, but even other deranged villains find the Black Harlequin disturbing and frightening. No one will play with him! Sometimes this makes him
BLACK HARLEQUIN FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know
about the Black Harlequin if they succeed with an
appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: The Black Harlequin is a lethally deranged supervillain who commits crimes using weapons disguised as toys and playthings: cherry bombs that really explode, teddy bears wielding tiny chainsaws, and so forth.
K/R: Black Harlequin prefers to avoid combat himself. If he can’t simply finish his scheme before heroes show up, he turns his Attack Toys loose and then runs for it.
-2: Black Harlequin sometimes cobbles together a primitive, but effective, jetpack to assist him in fleeing the scene of a crime.
-10: His Secret Identity is Rinaldo Maretti.

BLACK HARLEQUIN
25 Jester’s Cane: Multipower, 50-point reserve All OAF (-1)
1f 1) Bodacious Wallop: HA +7d6 3 OAF (-1), Hand-To-Hand Attack (-1⁄4)
2f 2) Sleepy-Gas: Blast 5d6 [6]
NND (defense is Life Support [Self-Contained Breathing]; +1); OAF (-1), Limited Range (4m; -1⁄4), 6 Charges (-3⁄4)
16 Armored Jester’s Motley: Resistant Protection
(8 PD/8 ED) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
10 Devilishly Fast: Running +10m (22m total) 1 Talents
4 Double-Jointed
6 Lightning Reflexes: +6 DEX to act first with All Actions
Skills
20 +2 with All Combat
6 +2 with Contortionist, Sleight Of Hand, and Stealth
3 Acting 14-
3 Contortionist 13-
3 Disguise 14-
3 Electronics 14-
3 Interrogation 14-
3 KS: Jokes, Riddles, & Puzzles 14- 3 KS: The Superhuman World 14- 3 KS: Toys & Games 14-
3 Lockpicking 13-
3 Mechanics 14-
3 Mimicry 14-
3 Security Systems 14-
3 Sleight Of Hand 13-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Streetwise 14-
3 Ventriloquism 14-
9 Weaponsmith (all categories) 14- Total Powers & Skills Cost: 243
Total Cost: 438
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: PRIMUS (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: the Champions (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Sociopathically Macabre
Sense Of Humor (Common, Total)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Rinaldo Maretti)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 38
Val Char Cost Roll
15 STR 5 12- 18 DEX 16 13- 20 CON 10 13- 25 INT 15 14- 20 EGO 10 13- 25 PRE 15 14-
8 OCV 25 7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0 8 DMCV 15
Notes
Lift 200 kg; 3d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 14- PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 16 PD (8 rPD)
Total: 16 ED (8 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 195
22m
5 SPD 8 PD
30
6
8 ED 12REC 8 40END 4 10 BODY 0
40 STUN
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
10
6
55 Look What I Made!: Variable Power Pool (Gadget Pool), 45 Pool + 40 Control Cost
Focus (all powers bought through VPP must have at least -1⁄2 worth of this Limitation; -1⁄2), Can Only Be Changed In Black Harlequin’s Laboratory (-1⁄2)
30 Fiendish Toychest: Multipower, 60-point powers All OAF (-1)
2f 1) Attack Toys: RKA 1d6
Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), Constant (+1⁄2), Indirect (Source Point and Path can vary from use to use; +1), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1), 6 Charges lasting 1 Turn each (-1⁄4)
2f 2) Cherry Bomb: Blast 8d6
Area Of Effect (18m Radius Explosion; +1⁄2);
OAF (-1), 8 Charges (-1⁄2)
2f 3) Confetti: Sight Group Flash 12d6
OAF (-1), Does Not Work Against Desolidified Characters (-1⁄4), Limited Range (4m; -1⁄4),
8 Charges (-1⁄2)
1f 4) Jacks: RKA 1d6
END
var
[6cc]
[8] [8]
[2rc]
Area Of Effect (2m Radius Surface; +1⁄4), Constant (+1⁄2), Uncontrolled (removable by spending a Full Phase to sweep them aside; +1⁄2) (34 Active Points); IAF (see text; -1⁄2), Activation Roll 14- (-1⁄4), Only On Horizontal Surfaces (-0), DEX Roll Cancels Effect (-1⁄4), Range Based On STR (-1⁄4), Automatically Targets Hit Location 18 (-0), 2 Recoverable Charges (-1)
2f 5) Not-So-Silly String: Entangle 6d6, 6 PD/6 ED [8] OAF (-1), Limited Range (40m; -1⁄4), 8 Charges (-1⁄2)
2f 6) Giggle Gas: Entangle 3d6, 3 PD/3 ED [8]
Takes No Damage From Attacks (+1); OAF (-1), 8 Charges (-1⁄2), Limited Range (12m; -1⁄4)


sad, but then he remembers his toys and thinks up another fun Escapade.
Appearance: The Black Harlequin is a tall, almost scarecrow-thin man. He wears either jester’s motley in black and dark red, or a tuxedo-like outfit in the same colors. His face is concealed
by greasepaint in a style that gives him a rather devilish grin, and he has a jester’s cap on top of his head. He carries a Jester’s Cane, and his pockets are stuffed full of his gimmicked weapons and deadly toys.
EXAMPLE POWERS FOR
LOOK WHaT I MaDe! POWER POOL
Here are some examples of devices the Black Harlequin might build with his Gadget Pool:
Chattering Teeth: This “novelty item” bites onto a victim and just keeps chewing until turned off or destroyed.
RKA 1d6+1Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), Constant (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2) (45 Active Points); OAF (-1), Range Based On STR (-1⁄4). Total cost: 20 points.
Choo, The Sad Little Train: Choo is sad, because he can’t make proper train sounds like all the other locomotives. But the sound he can make has an oddly hypnotic effect on people, causing them to become sleepy.
Mental Blast 3d6, ACV (uses OCV against DMCV; +1⁄4), Area Of Effect (16m Line; +1⁄4) (45 Active Points); OAF (-1). Total cost: 22 points.
Jackknife-In-The-Box: This fiendish jack-in-the- box has a wickedly sharp knife to stab people with when he pops out.
RKA 3d6 (45 Active Points); OAF (-1), Extra Time (Full Phase; -1⁄2), Limited Range (6m; -1⁄4), 1 Recoverable Charge (-11⁄4). Total cost: 11 points.
Raggedy Aneurysm: This seemingly cuddly rag doll clamps onto a victim and generates sonic waves that cause painful internal bleeding.
RKA 1⁄2d6, Constant (+1⁄2), NND (defense is ED Resistant Protection defined as a force-field or the like; +1), Does BODY (+1) (35 Active Points); OAF (-1), Range Based On STR (-1⁄4). Total cost: 15 points.
Rickity Rocket Jetpack: It belches smoke, makes funny noises, and looks like it might fall apart any second — but it works. And it’s enough to let the Black Harlequin make his escape when things get tight.
Flight 44m (44 Active Points); OIF (-1⁄2). Total cost: 29 points.
Tears Of A Clown: People splashed with this caustic liquid have plenty to cry about themselves.
RKA 1d6, Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), Constant (+1⁄2), Penetrating (+1⁄2) (34 Active Points); OAF (-1), Range Based On STR (-1⁄4), 8 Charges lasting 1 Turn each (-0). Total cost: 15 points.

