BLACK PALADIN
Background/History: Long centuries ago, in the time of good King Arthur, one of the greatest enemies of Camelot and the knights of the Round Table was the House of de Morphant,
a family of French knights so black-hearted
and cruel that people said Quand il pleut, la monde pleure pour les méfaits de Morphant (“When it rains, the world is weeping for the de Morphant’s deeds”). And the most wicked of all the scions of de Morphant was Giles, known far and wide as the Black Paladin for his dark armor and even darker soul. Many of Arthur’s best and strongest knights came against the Black Paladin only to have their bloody heads sent back to the King. With his deadly mace Broyeur D’Espoir (“Crusher Of Hope”), his terrible sword Cons- ammateur des Ombres (“Eater Of Shadows”), and an enchanted suit of armor that let him vanish from one spot and appear somewhere else, the Black Paladin was virtually invincible.
When King Arthur heard that Giles de Morphant was marching on a French abbey to sack and pillage it, he sent his greatest knight, Sir Lancelot, at the head of a column of noble knights to stop the Black Paladin once and
for all. The clash between Lancelot and de Morphant was fierce; mighty blows were given and received by both knights. After a day of fighting, the two parted, exhausted and bloody, but the Black Paladin had the better of the battle. His men routed Lancelot’s knights, and though badly injured himself, he had dealt Lancelot so great a wound he felt certain his foe would die. Exultant despite his pain, he proceeded to the abbey. Finding that the nuns had fled because of how Lancelot delayed
him, he flew into a rage and ordered the entire building put to the torch.
Meanwhile, the fleeing nuns came to Lance- lot’s encampment, where the tender ministra- tions of one of them, Elaine, healed Lancelot’s wound. By the time the Black Paladin and his army returned, Lancelot was ready for them. And this time de Morphant’s power and black magic did not avail him — Lancelot triumphed, leaving the Black Paladin face down in the muck of the battlefield.
But de Morphant did not die. Through malice he clung to life. After the battle had passed away, his lover, the witch Chantal, possessed of powerful sorcery, came to him. Unable to heal him as fully as Elaine had Lancelot, she worked a spell to preserve him, unchanged, until “he who is as your brother shalt awaken thee.” Then she placed him in his secret tomb, long prepared against just such
a day, and in despair and anguish took her own life.

BLACK PALADIN FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about the Black Paladin if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: The Black Paladin is a powerful supervil- lain who claims to be a knight from Arthurian times and to have once defeated Sir Lancelot. His mace, sword,
armor, and shield are
all enchanted. He also possesses a magical lance that he uses when riding his demonic steed, Darkling.
K/R: From 2003 to 2009 the Black Paladin was imprisoned in Stronghold, though
the government never uncovered his true identity. He escaped when Menton broke free in 2009.
-1: The Black Paladin also knows a few spells, such as one to create a blinding fog and one to summon demons.
-4: Since resuming
his villainous career in 2009, the Black Paladin has had the patronage of Baphomet, the Lord of Wrath. The arch-devil gave Black Paladin a signet-ring that allows him to teleport, thus replacing the enchanted armor Black Paladin lost when he was captured.
-6: The Black Paladin suffers painful burns
if splashed with or immersed in holy water.
-10: His Secret Identity is John Black, a professor of medieval studies at Marquette University. He’s been
a visiting professor at Millennium City University on several occasions.

BLACK PALADIN
The Knight of the Crow Val Char Cost Roll Notes
40 Demon’s-Head Shield: Multipower, 60-point reserve All OIF (shield; -1⁄2)
2f 1) Protection: Physical and Energy Damage
Reduction, 50%, Resistant 6 OIF (-1⁄2), Activation Roll 14- (-1⁄4), Costs Endurance (-1⁄2)
3f 2) Defense: +8 DCV 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
5 Immortality: Life Support (Longevity: Immortality) 0 54 Signet Of Baphomet: Teleportation 40m, x16
Noncombat, x2 Increased Mass, Position Shift 3
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); OIF (-1⁄2)
6 Swift-Limbed: Running +6m (18m total) 1 33 Eye Of Souls: Detect Souls 13- (no Sense Group),
Discriminatory, Ranged, Sense, Targeting 0
Talents
30 Premonitions: Danger Sense (immediate vicinity, any danger) 12-
Perks
60 Follower: Darkling, a demon steed built on 300 Total Points (see HSB 100)
Skills
32 +4 HTH
3 Fast Draw (Common Melee Weapons) 14- 3 Interrogation 15-
3 High Society 15-
3 AK: France 12-
3 KS: Arcane And Occult Lore 12-
3 KS: Medieval Culture 12-
3 KS: Medieval History 12-
3 Language: English (completely fluent; Old French is
Native)
3 Language: French (completely fluent) 3 Oratory 15-
3 Riding 14-
2 PS: Professor 11-
2 SS: Archaeology 11-
3 Tactics 12-
3 Teamwork 14-
5 WF: Common Melee Weapons, Lances, Staffs, Whips Total Powers & Skills Cost: 644
Total Cost: 942
400 Matching Complications (75)
10 Distinctive Features: Mystic Aura (Not Concealable; Always Noticed; Detectable Only With Unusual Senses)
25 Hunted: the Champions (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Psychological Complication: Overconfidence (Very
Common, Moderate)
15 Psychological Complication: Hatred Of Christianity
(Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Loves To Gloat and
Torment Prisoners (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Giles de Morphant/
John Black) (Frequently, Major)
20 Susceptibility: to holy water, takes 2d6 per Phase
(Uncommon)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 542
40 STR 30 17- 27 DEX 34 14- 30 CON 20 15- 15 INT 5 12- 15 EGO 5 12- 30 PRE 20 15-
11 OCV 40 10 DCV 35 3 OMCV 0 6 DMCV 9
Lift 6,400 kg; 8d6 HTH damage [4]
6 SPD 12 PD
12 ED 12 REC 55 END 20 BODY 50 STUN
40
10 10 8 7 10 15
PER Roll 12- MCV: 5
PRE Attack: 6d6
Phases: 2, 4, 8, 10, 12 Total: 36 PD (24 rPD)
Total: 36 ED (24 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 298
Movement: Running: Teleportation:
Cost Powers
18m 40m
18 Crusher Of Hope: HA +8d6
OAF (enchanted mace; -1), Hand-To-Hand Attack (-1⁄4)
78 Eater Of Shadows: Multipower, 157-point reserve All OAF (sword, -1)
6f 1) Blade: HKA 11⁄2d6 (4d6+1 with STR) Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1)
plus: Major Transform 8d6 (ordinary human into human with Unluck 3d6 and Distinctive Features [no shadow], heals back through special arcane ceremony) (standard effect: 24 BODY), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1), Linked (-1⁄4), Only Works If HKA Does BODY (-1⁄2)
4f 2) Shadow Blast: Blast 12d6
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1)
58 The Lance Of Unvanquished Pain: HKA 2d6 (4d6-1 with STR)
+2 Increased STUN Multiplier (+1⁄2); OAF (-1),
Can Only Be Used On Horseback (-1⁄2) plus: Drain DEX 4d6
Delayed Return Rate (points return at the rate of 5 per Day; +21⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1), Linked (-1⁄4), No Range (-1⁄2), Only Works If HKA Does BODY (-1⁄2), Can Only Be Used On Horseback (-1⁄2)
80 I Summon The Servants Of Baphomet: Summon one infernal being built on up to 600 Total Points Expanded Class (demons, devils, and other infernal beings; +1⁄4), Loyal (+1⁄2), Variable Summon (see text and Fantasy Hero, page 155; +1⁄4); 1 Charge (-2)
27 Blinding Fog Spell: Darkness to Sight Group 8m radius 4 Gestures (-1⁄4), Incantations (-1⁄4)
60 Armor Of Wrathful Power: Resistant Protection (24 PD/24 ED)
Hardened (+1⁄4); OIF (-1⁄2)

Fast forward to 1993. John Black, an archae- ology professor from Marquette University, was backpacking across France when he discovered something in a dark, tiny patch of forest — a tomb! It was old and ruined, with a fallen ceiling and all the walls partially collapsed, but clearly it was someone’s sepulchre. Had he bothered to talk to the local people, he would have learned he was in Forêt du Chevalier Noir, the Forest of the Black Knight, and that they shunned it as cursed ground and a place of great evil.
Eager to find out more, Black clambered through the ruins until he found the coffin. With a little bit of struggling, he managed to get the stone lid off. Inside was a corpse — an amazingly well- preserved one. As he brushed dirt and dust off the face, he tried to translate the inscription on the inside of the coffin, speaking it out loud to make
it easier. With a start, the corpse’s eyes opened! Before Black could react, Giles de Morphant’s powerful right hand was about his throat.
The next several hours were a haze of pain,
as the Black Paladin tortured him. De Morphant discovered, to his satisfaction, that his lover’s spell had prepared him for his new life; he could speak the man’s strange English. And the prophecy had run true; the man was almost his twin. When he had learned enough to impersonate John Black, de Morphant slew him and walked out into a new world — a world of knights armored in gaudy skintight clothes with powers exceeding even his lover’s wizardry. But he had slain the knights of his own day, and could just as easily slay these.
For a span of ten years the Black Paladin worked his evil upon the world, defying conven- tional law enforcement and superheroes alike
to stop him. In 2003 he launched his grandest scheme ever: to resurrect Chantal! With the help of the supervillainess Talisman he committed ritual murders and nearly succeeded at trans- forming her sister, the heroine Witchcraft, into Chantal... but then Chantal betrayed them both
in an effort to seize power for herself! In the end neither her evil nor his were strong enough to overcome the valor of the Champions. Chantal’s spirit was banished, perhaps destroyed, and he was captured.
Sentenced to Stronghold, he fell into the grip of depression — or so everyone thought. His anguish was real at first; he was genuinely despondent about Chantal’s betrayal and had little motivation to do anything. But a tool of evil as powerful as the Paladin cannot lay unwielded for long. Baphomet, a leading member of the Descending Hierarchy, contacted the Black Paladin through his dreams. In exchange for the Paladin continuing to spread misery, woe, destruction, havoc, and misery, the Lord of Wrath would grant him even greater power... power with which he might one day take revenge against Chantal, the Champions, and all his other enemies.
The dark flame within the Black Paladin’s breast flared once more, and he accepted the offer — for what was the Lord of Wrath asking him to do, that he would not gladly do already? He maintained a facade of depression until 2009, when Menton’s breakout afforded him a chance to escape. Baphomet returned his old weapons to him and granted him new armor and other gifts, and now the Black Paladin’s shadow threatens to engulf the world once more....
Personality/Motivation: The Black Paladin is fiendishness personified. No deed is too evil for him, no sin too black. He has no respect for the sanctity of human life, the beauty of women, the charitableness of holy men, or anything else other than himself. He particularly enjoys tormenting his foes, whether it be with the rack and pincers or the simple knowledge of their own inevitable defeat and death at his hands. Gloating comes naturally to him; in his overconfidence he rarely hesitates to explain his schemes to his soon-to-be- dead foes.
Remembering the Christian purity and devotion of Arthur’s knights, the Black Paladin reserves an especial hatred for Christianity and anyone associated with it. Many of his crimes have involved the desecration of churches, the viola- tion of nuns, and the destruction and looting of Christian charities and institutions.
Appearance: The Black Paladin wears finely- crafted black plate armor and matching helm, with a blood-red surcoat and cape and Eater Of Souls usually in a scabbard at his left hip. In his right hand he typically carries Crusher Of Hope, and in his left he has a shield with his device, a crow sinister, emblazoned upon it.
Giles de Morphant (or “John Black” as he’s normally known in this time) is a tall, well- muscled, dark-haired man with dark eyes and a short, well-trimmed black beard. Even in his civilian identity he has a certain malevolent air that puts people of

The Black Paladin affects a noble and honor- able nature when treating with his foes, though neither mercy, honesty, nor faithfulness support his words. He speaks courteously (even if his words drip with malice), and in a tone and style reminiscent of when he first lived. Try to roleplay his “nobility” and speech patterns when using him in a game.
Quote: “You who stand against me shall fall deeper than the pits of Hell, for not even Lancelot can come against the Black Paladin and escape untouched. The sight of your life’s-blood spilling upon the ground shall be sweet to me, sweeter than the singing of nightingales.”
Powers/Tactics: The Black Paladin is a skilled, vicious knight armed with several magical weapons. His favorite is a mace, Crusher Of
Hope, which inflicts devastating blows powerful enough to shatter castle walls. He also carries a sword, Eater Of Shadows. Not only is its blade deadly in its own right, but if the victim takes
so much as a single point of BODY, the sword tries to consume his shadow. A person without
a shadow suffers extraordinary misfortune (and looks quite odd to boot). The only way to get the victim’s shadow back is to perform a magic ritual in which the sword itself is used to carve arcane symbols (engraved on its ricasso) on the victim’s chest. Eater Of Shadows can also project a potent Shadow Blast, using the shadows it has stolen to destroy the Black Paladin’s foes. Because he carries a shield in his left hand, the Black Paladin can only wield one of these fearsome weapons at a time.
When riding his demonic steed Darkling, the Black Paladin often wields a third weapon, the Lance of Unvanquished Pain. Even the slightest scratch from it leaves the victim wracked and crippled with pain.
The Black Paladin wears an enchanted suit
of armor forged for him by Baphomet, and an enchanted shield to match. On the ring-finger of his right hand he wears Baphomet’s Signet, which allows him to move from one place to a nearby place without crossing the space in between. He makes skilled use of this in combat, often tele- porting behind a foe to obtain a Surprise Move bonus, or teleporting from enemy to enemy to keep any one of them from mounting a sustained attack against him.
The Black Paladin also has a few magical abili- ties. Some are spells learned long ago from the witch Chantal. He can conjure a thick fog to blind his foes, and then use his Eye Of Souls ability to keep track of where they are so he can attack them without difficulty. From Baphomet he’s gained the power to summon members of the Infernal Host to aid him. He can only do so once per day, and the more powerful the type of demon he chooses to summon, the fewer of them he can call to his aid. (See Fantasy Hero, page 155, for full informa- tion on the Variable Summon Advantage.)

De Morphant also possesses several Skills needed for his role as John Black, archaeology professor. (He maintains this identity, since the government never uncovered it when he was captured and Baphomet covered up his absence with a few well-placed spells.) His knowledge of modern civilization and history is fairly complete, though he may occasionally slip (particularly when using High Society).
Campaign Use: You can use the Black Paladin in several ways. For some PC groups he’s powerful enough to serve as a low-grade master villain,
or perhaps as an ally of other powerful mystic villains (such as Dark Seraph, the Demonologist, Talisman, or the Slug). Alternately, he might take a job as “retainer” to a powerful master villain, though even then he’s likely trying to find a way to betray his “master” and turn the situation to his own advantage.
The Black Paladin’s function as Baphomet’s servant may also generate plots. After all, arch- devils are fickle patrons. Should the Black Paladin fail to satisfy Baphomet’s desires, the Lord of Wrath might very well take the gifts he gave de Morphant away....
If you want to strengthen the Black Paladin, perhaps to turn him into more of a “master villain” or character capable of taking on an entire PC team, you can increase his defense, or give him more spells and abilities. Another possibility is
to allow him to Summon more demons, more frequently, so that he always has an “army” at his beck and call.
To weaken the Black Paladin, get rid of his Teleportation, remove some of his spells, reduce his sword’s HKA to 1d6 (or remove the sword altogether, or at least take away its Transform power), reduce Crusher Of Hope to an HA +6d6, and take away or weaken his Danger Sense.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: The Black Paladin’s a very active supervillain and has often worked with other villains such as Anubis, the Demonologist, Morningstar, Talisman, and the Ultimates in temporary partnerships. (He prefers to work with other mystic villains.) Most surpris- ingly he gets along well with Dark Seraph; each seems to “respect” the evil in the other, in a sense.
The handsome de Morphant has also cut some- thing of a swath among the mystic villainesses of the Champions Universe. Brangomar, the Shadow Queen, finds him the most delightful “minion”
on Earth. Rumor has it that he and Morgaine the Mystic, and he and Talisman, have had affairs, though there’s no proof of any of this.
On the other hand, the Black Paladin isn’t friends with everyone in the Mystic World. He intends to kill Eduard and Anais Vandaleur for their “insults” to him (i.e., betrayal of him the
one time they teamed up) as soon as a reason- able opportunity presents itself. The Circle of the Scarlet Moon he generally regards as being full
of poseurs and fools. He won’t lift a finger to stop DEMON’s schemes unless he absolutely has to, but he won’t work with the organization either.