BLACK FANG
Background/History: James Talmadge, a nice young man in his second year of college, had plenty of friends and an active social life. He also studied karate, though without great achievement. He still lived with his folks and felt great pride in his father, a successful judge. The Demonologist decided he wanted a judge serving him, especially to keep those stupid superheroes off his back. So the Demonologist cursed James with lycanthropy. It was easy. As the old movie put it,
“Even a man who is pure of heart
“And says his prayers at night
“May become a wolf when the wolfsbane
blooms
“And the moon is full and bright.”
That month, on the three nights of the full
moon, the city reeled before an incredible string of “ripper” murders — and the medical examiner found that something had chewed away several pounds of each victim’s flesh. The police found one surviving witness, who could only babble hysterically about a black shape with fangs.
Finding his nightmares written up in the paper upset James a great deal. Within him, however, the beast grinned and found its name.
James’s father was even more upset when the Demonologist dropped in to give his ultimatum: serve him, or James would slaughter more people each month. As long as the Demonologist was satisfied, he would supply a talisman to prevent the change — but just for that month’s full moon. He advised the judge not to seek alternate means of restraining his son. “I have ways of knowing such things... and your situation can become worse. Such as if the authorities learn that you’re shielding a killer.”
Judge Talmadge tried chaining James in the basement during the next full moon. The beast broke the chains on the second night, escaped and killed two more people. The Demonologist visited the judge on the next morning, and the judge submitted.
Before leaving, the Demonologist offered a
bit of advice. The curse of the werewolf, he said, was permanent and binding: James was always
a werewolf, not just when the full moon shone, and the beast could slip out in moments of stress. “I suggest,” he said, “you live a quiet life. Or of course you could simply accept what you are.” The sorcerer smiled. “You may even come to like it.”
James hoped he wouldn’t — and tried not to. For years he fought against the beast, struggling
to hold his temper in check and avoid anything that might frighten him. But each month there was a full moon, and that urge he could not resist. Then something even worse happened. During the “Blood Moon” event in October 2009, the
foul magics of Takofanes the Arch-Lich trans- formed thousands of people around the world into werewolves. The spell forced Talmadge into Black Fang form for weeks... and during those weeks he recruited a pack of followers, lesser werewolves

to whom he was the alpha male. Some of those people have remained lycanthropes since the spell ended, even embraced their new, fearsome state, and they’re always waiting for Black Fang when
he re-appears. Reveling in his position as top dog and the greater evil he can wreak because of it, Black Fang has taken to wearing trophies — bits of clothing scavenged from his victims, and often a coil of barbed wire around his arm.
Personality/Motivation: James Talmadge is now a timid, nervous wreck. He’s failing all his classes and avoids his friends. Black Fang, in contrast, fears nothing but confinement. The werewolf embodies all the hate, rage, lust, and violence that civilization tries to restrain. He loves stalking his prey and savoring their terror. The werewolf may also act out passions that James restrains. For instance, Black Fang might rape (and then kill) a girl James wants to date, or might hunt and kill someone who hassled James.
James remembers his actions as Black Fang
as a vivid nightmare, which is the most his mind can do to shield itself from his other half ’s deeds. Black Fang knows all of James’s skills but has little interest in his memories. The werewolf wants to eliminate the wimpy, moral human personality so he can have James’s body all the time.
Quote: (In a low grow) “Hello, little girl. Do you have a basket of goodies?”
Powers/Tactics: Black Fang is superhumanly strong and quick. Most injuries, except those caused by silver or fire, heal in less than a second (the special effect of his Resistant Protection). Exceptionally severe wounds still heal with
great speed. Only a silver weapon or outrageous amounts of damage can kill Black Fang.
If James dies in human form, the curse slowly heals his wounds and brings him back from death. Once James lives again, the curse changes him
to Black Fang, who completes the regeneration.
At the GM’s option, this also causes the curse to worsen in some manner. Perhaps James changes into Black Fang every night, or he suffers fits of the werewolf ’s bloodlust while still in human form.
Black Fang has James’s knowledge of karate. Untrammeled by human restraint, the beast fights with great skill and ferocity. A hairy, snarling monster doing karate chops and kicks may seem funny... but not when you’re on the receiving end.
The werewolf prefers to stalk people who are alone. If a group pursues Black Fang, he tries to pick them off one by one. If possible, he leads the pursuers somewhere they must split up, such as a dark, crowded warehouse. Black Fang is rationally conscious of silver weapons: people who openly carry guns become his preferred targets, and he tries to take the gun away before any other attacks.
Black Fang often begins an assault with a Pres- ence Attack in hopes of paralyzing his prey with fear. If Black Fang can stalk his victim for a while, making the person already frightened, he can certainly gain extra dice of effect when he howls and leaps from the shadows.

Val Char Cost
Roll Notes-
30 STR 29 DEX
23 CON 13 INT 17 EGO 25 PRE
16*
30* 10* 3 6* 12*
15-
15- 14- 12- 12- 14-
Lift 1,600 kg; 6d6 HTH damage [3] OCV: 10/DCV: 10
PER Roll 14 MCV: 6
PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 Total: 32 PD (15 rPD)
Total: 28 ED (11 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 248
*: OIAID (-1⁄4) 32m
9 OCV 30 9 DCV 30 3 OMCV 0 7 DMCV 12
7 SPD 20 PD
25*
14*
20 ED
20 REC 13* 45END 5 13 BODY 3 40 STUN 10
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
END
3
8 Cursed Beyond Death: Regeneration (1 BODY per
Hour), Resurrection (others can stop resurrection
by inflicting a fatal wound with a silver weapon) 0 Resurrection Only (-2), Only Works If Black Fang Is
Slain In His Human Form (-1⁄2)
Perks
4 Contact: Judge Talmadge 11- (very useful Skills or resources)
Skills
16 +2 HTH
3 Acrobatics 15- 3 Breakfall 15- 3 Climbing 15-
2 KS: Karate 11-
3 Shadowing 15-
3 Stealth 15-
3 Tracking 12-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 185 Total Cost: 433
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Accidental Change: always during nights of the full moon (Uncommon)
10 Accidental Change: when angry, frightened, or in combat 8- (Common)
20 Enraged: if takes BODY (Common), go 11-, recover 11- 15 Hunted: himself 14- (Less Pow, Capture/Kill [James tries
to restrain Black Fang and end the curse])
20 Psychological Complication: Fear Of Capture (Very
Common, Strong)
10 Psychological Complication: Hates Leaving Victim Alive
(Common, Moderate)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (James Talmadge)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 33
4 Block 4 Disarm
4 Dodge
5 Kick
4 Punch
+2 +2 1 +1 0 +5 2 +1
+0 +2
Block, Abort
Disarm, +40 STR Dodge all attacks, Abort 10d6 Strike
8d6 Strike
14*
BLACK FANG
Martial Arts: Karate
Maneuver OCV DCV Notes
24 Claw/Bite: HKA 2d6 (4d6 with STR) OIAID (-1⁄4)
2 Supernatural Toughness: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 3 PD/3 ED 0 OIAID (-1⁄4)
15 Supernatural Toughness: Resistant Protection
(12 PD/8 ED) 0 OIAID (-1⁄4), Does Not Work Against Fire Or Silver (-3⁄4)
16 Lupine Speed: Running +20m (32m total) 2 OIAID (-1⁄4)
32 Supernatural Healing: Regeneration (3 BODY per Turn) 0 OIAID (-1⁄4), Does Not Work On Some Damage (that
caused by silver weapons; -1⁄4)
5 Lupine Senses: +2 PER with All Sense Groups 0
OIAID (-1⁄4)
8 Lupine Senses: Discriminatory for Smell/Taste Group 0
OIAID (-1⁄4)
8 Lupine Senses: Tracking for Smell/Taste Group 0
OIAID (-1⁄4)
4 Lupine Senses: Nightvision 0
OIAID (-1⁄4)
2 Lupine Senses: Ultrasonic Perception (Hearing Group) 0
OIAID (-1⁄4)

BLACK FANG FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Black Fang if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Black Fang is a classical werewolf — bestial, vicious, and difficult to capture and control.
K/R: Black Fang has the traditional were- wolf vulnerability to silver weapons and fire.
-2: Black Fang cannot transmit his lycanthropy by biting someone, or by any other means as far as anyone can tell.
-6: Black Fang has killed several victims who were known to be enemies of the Devil’s Advocates; he may have some connection to that team.
-10: His Secret Identity is James Talmadge; he’s the victim of a curse cast upon him by the Demonologist.

When James accidentally changes into Black Fang, the werewolf normally stays dominant for at least an hour. Each hour after the change, Black Fang and James pit EGO Rolls against each other. If James wins, he resumes human form. If Black Fang wins, he stays in control of their body for another hour. Other characters can force a change using Telepathy or Mind Control: making Black Fang surrender control to James requires an EGO +30 effect against the werewolf, while making James become Black Fang merely requires an EGO +10 effect against the human (Black Fang is helping, and has the stronger will.)
Black Fang isn’t a “contagious” werewolf: people who survive his bite do not become werewolves in turn. The effects of lycanthropy can vary depending on the method by which a person becomes a werewolf, whether the person chose the state deliberately, and many other possible factors. Perhaps the Demonologist simply didn’t want to inflict an epidemic of lycanthropy (at this time).
Campaign Use: Although Black Fang is a formi- dable combatant, a team of superheroes (magical or otherwise) can defeat him in a straight-up fight without much trouble. The challenge lies in catching the werewolf before he kills any more ordinary people... and what do the heroes do with Black Fang once they catch him? Even the Demo- nologist cannot rescind the curse now that Black Fang has killed, and the most powerful science or sorcery known to mortals can only suppress the curse, not remove it completely.
If Black Fang isn’t powerful enough to supply a suitable challenge, add Damage Classes, Combat Skill Levels, points of Regeneration, or more DEX and SPD so he can fight nonmagical PCs on their own level. Against mystical heroes, Black Fang may need some Mental Defense or Power Defense — if his sheer speed and high Recovery are not defense enough. If the werewolf is too powerful, reduce his DEX and SPD.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Whether he’s in his human form or wolf-man form, Black Fang bitterly hates the Demonologist (and by extension, the Devil’s Advocates). James would do almost anything for a chance to free himself from the curse; Black Fang has no objection to the “curse” but would gladly slaughter the Demonologist so as to be free of his occasional commands.
Takofanes the Archlich sometimes transforms people into werewolves to serve him, and has considered “recruiting” Black Fang to lead his lupine forces. For now it doesn’t matter to him enough to risk a potential conflict with the Devil’s Advocates, though.
Appearance: James stands 5’8” tall. He has a slender build, black hair, and ordinary features. He always seems nervous and jumpy. As Black Fang, James is still 5’8” tall but heavily built, with a shaggy black pelt, shining red eyes, clawed hands and feet, and a wolf ’s head and tail. In recent months he’s begun wearing bits and pieces of clothing (“trophies” taken from his victims), and often a coil of barbed wire around his arm as well.

