Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
45 STR 23 DEX 30 CON 18 INT 20 EGO 30 PRE
35
26 14- 20 15-
20
Lift 12.5 tons; 9d6 HTH damage [4]
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack: 6d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 24 PD (18 rPD)
Total: 24 ED (18 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 327
12m
8 OCV 25 8 DCV 25
8 OMCV
8 DMCV 15
5 SPD 24 PD
30
22
BLOODRAGE
Perks
2 Fringe Benefit: Member of the Lower Nobility Of Hell
Talents
22 Universal Translator 15-
Skills
3 +3 OMCV with Instill Rage 24 +3 HTH
3 Concealment 13-
3 Conversation 15-
3 KS: The Descending Hierarchy 13- 3 AK: Hell 13-
2 KS: Earth’s Superhumans 11-
3 Oratory 15-
3 Persuasion 15-
3 Shadowing 13-
3 Stealth 14-
3 Tactics 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 423 Total Cost: 750
24 ED
20 REC 16 60END 8 20 BODY 10 60 STUN 20
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
8
10 13-
15
22
18-
13- 15-
93 Instill Rage: Mind Control 14d6 (Human class of minds) 6 Telepathic (+1⁄4), Invisible Power Effects (victim
believes actions were his own; +1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Only To Cause Anger And Provoke Combat (-1⁄2)
56 Claws: HKA 3d6 (6d6 with STR) 2 Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
18 Demonic Body: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 18 PD/18 ED 0 20 Demonic Mind: Mental Defense (20 points) 0 10 Demonic Body: Power Defense (10 points) 0 37 Demonic Body: Life Support (Total, including
Longevity: Immortality but excluding
Diminished Eating) 0 30 Remaining Unseen: Invisibility to Sight, Hearing
and Smell/Taste Groups 3 20 Infernal Escape: Extra-Dimensional Movement (to
a single location in Hell) 2 22 Detect Anger And Rage: Detect A Single Thing 13-
(Unusual Group), Discriminatory, Range, Telescopic
(+8 versus Range Modifier), Tracking 0 32 Demonic Body: Regeneration (2 BODY per Turn) 0 5 Tail: Extra Limb 0
Inherent (+1⁄4); Limited Manipulation (+1⁄4)
400
20 15
25 15
15
15
Matching Complications (75)
Hunted: Forces Of Light (Frequently, Mo Pow, Harshly Punish)
Hunted: More Powerful Demons (Frequently, Mo Pow, PC has a Public ID or is otherwise very easy to find, Watching)
Psychological Complication: Loves To See Others Fight (Very Common, Total)
Psychological Complication: Fascinated By Earth’s Superheroes, Especially Those With Hidden Savage- ries (Common, Strong)
Psychological Complication: Fears More Powerful Demons (Uncommon, Total)
Susceptibility: takes 2d6 damage instantly when exposed to Holy items or attacks (Common)
END
Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Holy Attacks (Uncommon) Vulnerability: 11⁄2 x BODY from Holy Attacks (Uncommon)
10
5
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 350


BLOODRAGE
Background/History: Bloodrage is a demon whose native home is the Netherworld (a plane to which it can return at will). As far as it can remember
it has always existed... and always found humans fascinating toys to play with and feed off of.
Personality/Motivation: Bloodrage both physi- cally and psychically feeds on rage, particularly the intense rage that occurs during combat. It uses its powers to manipulate people into fighting each other so it can voyeuristically satiate itself
on the resulting emotions. During the twentieth century it discovered that costumed criminals and crimefighters are particularly rich sources of both nutrition and amusement.
Quote: “Ahhh, delicious... a bold, righteous anger with cinnamony whiff of frustration.”
Powers/Tactics: Bloodrage usually lurks invisibly around people or places where it might have the opportunity to feed. When a situation arises that it thinks can spark a conflict, it uses its Instill Rage power to fan that spark into a full-blown flame. Then it sits back and enjoys the fun. The victim usually can never tell that his fury didn’t come from himself... and even if he eventually realizes he was psionically manipulated, convincing other people of that may not be possible....
Campaign Use: Bloodrage is a walking plot device for when GMs want to provoke combat between characters with no other good reason to fight. Heroes with Enraged/Beserk Complications, especially those who try to control these flaws and regret their failures to do so, are particularly appealing to Bloodrage; it’s the surrender to the primal emotions of combat that it finds tasty.
To make Bloodrage more powerful, either give it more powers that it could use to manipulate people (such as Mental Illusions or Telepathy), or give it a suite of typical demonic powers (control over hellfire, for example, or even a Magic Power Pool). To weaken it, reduce its dice in Mind Control so it can only coax people into anger, not outright control them.
Appearance: Bloodrage is a horrible little demon with a segmented black exoskeleton bristling with spikes, overlong limbs, and a pointed tail that he curls protectively around himself. His eyes are bulbous and yellow, without pupils, and his face has a long snout and a sneering permanent grin showing lots of mismatched teeth. He stands about four feet tall, though the way he often hunches over it’s difficult to gauge his true height.
BLOWTORCH
Background/History: Perry Johnson got his start as a pyromaniac early — he can’t remember a time when he wasn’t fascinated by the flames. As
a child, he frequently started small fires just for the fun of watching them burn, and chased after fire trucks on his bike to see the towering sheets of flame as beautiful, precious fire claimed another tribute in the form of an office building or home. Even today he often spends his “recreation time” listening for reports of fires and driving over to watch his “good friends” in the Fire Department at work.
After high school, Perry joined the Army, hoping to have the opportunity to learn about and use incendiary weapons. He got his chance, and after he helped test some new models the Army was experimenting with, he made some insightful and useful suggestions to the development team.
Then the MPs caught him setting a little fire in the mess hall late one night. Despite his claim that he’d found the fire and was trying to put it out, he was court-martialed and dishonorably discharged. Disconsolate, he obtained a job as an arson inves- tigator for an insurance firm, but that didn’t work out — he only got involved with fires after they happened. He saw the aftermath, but not the birth or the flowering, and he couldn’t stand that.
Finally, Perry’s pyromania reached the point where he realized he should be setting the fires, not just watching them. That way he was sure to be in on all the glorious action! He snuck back onto the Army base where he’d been stationed, broke into the laboratory, and stole one of the experimental flamethrowers and some other equipment. A wave of destructive building fires soon announced that Blowtorch had arrived on the supervillain scene.
Personality/Motivation: Blowtorch is a psychotic pyromaniac who loves to watch things burn — including people. Anything that feeds his beloved flames is acceptable as fuel. The screams and smell of burning human flesh please him almost as much as seeing a towering skyscraper engulfed in flames from head to toe.
Blowtorch’s affect and mood vary. When
he’s on a roll or succeeding at things (including combat), he tends to rhapsodize fire, shouting paeans of praise to it and even singing snatches of rock-’n’-roll songs that mention it. He’ll giggle and caper, sometimes wasting a Phase for the sheer joy of it. If things aren’t going so well, he tends to stare deeply into the flames, becoming morosely wrapped up in how wonderful they are. (In game terms, if things are going very well or very poorly for Blowtorch, the GM should have him make an EGO Roll; if he fails, he spends one Phase doing these things.)
Quote: “Blaze and burn, twist and turn, glorious fire, higher and higher!”

BLOODRAGE FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Bloodrage if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Bloodrage is
a demon from the Netherworld who enjoys toying with humans. Its primary power is the ability to cause someone to become furiously angry.
K/R: Bloodrage also has vicious claws capable of wounding even the toughest superheroes.
-4: Holy attacks cause Bloodrage great pain.
-6: In fact, just exposing Bloodrage to Holy objects or powers causes it pain.