BRAINCHILD
Background/History: Harold Jenkins can’t remember a time when he didn’t have mental powers. When he was in elementary school and junior high, he used them to keep bullies away from him — and he was already smart enough to conceal his powers while he did it. In high school he used his powers to get straight As, and girls, who couldn’t withstand the force of his powers of mental domination. All in all, a most pleasant existence.
Already well-versed in many scientific subjects due to his innate intelligence and interest in such matters, Harold didn’t bother with college. Instead, he went straight out into the working world — or, more precisely, the working underworld, since he realized he could use his powers to get money the same way he’d used them to get girls. He arro- gantly christened himself “Brainchild” and set about robbing banks. His first few robberies were an astounding success; he flashily mind controlled the guards and loudly demanded money from the tellers, who just handed it to him, after which he walked out the door. Then he tried to rob a bank when Jonathan Keyes (the Drifter of the Justice Squadron) happened to be nearby. A few minutes later, the Drifter was posing heroically for the cameras and giving a post-battle interview while Brainchild was being taken by emergency vehicle to the nearest mental ward.
Humiliated and badly injured, Harold began to rethink his approach. He didn’t like pain — in fact, he absolutely loathed it — and had little interest
in getting involved with the usual sorts of battles people with superpowers seemed to participate in. He could make more money by using his mental and scientific talents to supply the underworld with goods and services. That would be nice, safe, and profitable.
After his mind had recovered from the Drifter’s powers, and his body had healed, Brainchild served the rest of his term, was released, and then simply vanished. For a while he went to work for VIPER, but that turned out badly; no one there recognized his inherent brilliance, and his inability to follow orders or get along with his lab-mates led to a rather abrupt parting of the ways in which Brainchild walked off with several gigabytes of valuable VIPER data. Now UNTIL and other law enforcement agencies are looking for him because he violated the terms of his parole, and VIPER wants to kill him and get its data back. But he’s smarter than all of them put together, and intends to stay far away from jail — or the business end of any VIPER blasters.
Personality/Motivation: For a mentalist, Brain- child is a relatively normal guy. All he asks out of life is to be left alone to accumulate as much money as possible so he can live like a king. The fact people want to stop him from doing this because he steals the money annoys him consid- erably. The way he sees it, he’s entitled to some money, since he doesn’t use his mental powers to conquer the world or anything, like Menton and those other villains. He’s doing the world a favor, and he ought to be compensated for it.
Brainchild’s goal as a criminal is to amass as much wealth as possible. He has very expensive tastes he likes to indulge; whenever possible, he lives in expensive hotel rooms and penthouses, eats the best food, drink the finest wines, and dates the most beautiful women (whether they’ll date him of their own free will or not). If he doesn’t have money, you can bet he’s scheming to get some, somehow. If he ever hit a really big score, he would probably retire from crime — at least until the money ran out.
Quote: “I think I’ve got just the thing for you....”
Powers/Tactics: Brainchild is a mentalist with
an average range of low-strength mental abilities. He usually makes his money with his talents as an electronics wizard and inventor — he supplies other criminals with gadgets or advice to help their crimes go more smoothly. Occasionally he hires himself out to help criminal groups; he does still commit a few crimes on his own, but they tend to be very low-risk ones.
Brainchild is a coward, though not an abject one. His fight with the Drifter taught him just how painful superpowered combat can be, and he has no desire to repeat the experience. He’ll run rather than fight if confronted by superheroes. The only exception to this is that he absolutely cannot stand to be insulted or taunted; it brings back unpleasant memories of his childhood as an “egghead.” He’s likely to turn on anyone throwing insults at him and try to teach him a lesson.
Coward or not, Brainchild is still a criminal, and sometimes displays a rather vicious streak. He will make sneak attacks or use “dirty blows” to gain a quick advantage, and he loves to torment his enemies when they’re down (or to take unpleasant forms of revenge on them if they hurt or capture him). Superheroes who approach him simply as a cowardly little gadgeteer are in for a surprise.
Brainchild usually carries a large selection
of gadgets (and sometimes the spare parts with which to build other gadgets). He’s really more dangerous as a gadgeteer than as a mentalist, a fact his enemies sometimes forget. His favorite gadget is his Molecular Destabilization Pistol, which cancels the bonds between molecules, with effects up to and including total disintegration of the target. He’d really like to learn SS: Psionic Engi- neering so he can build devices into his helmet that augment his Mental Powers, but so far the secrets of that science elude him.


As a mutant, Brainchild supports Kinematik, though he has turned down offers to join the master of kinetic energy as a formal member of his team. Instead he helps the cause by selling Kinematik his gadgets and services at a substantial discount. If Brainchild were ever in serious trouble Kinematik might help him out as a “recruiting tactic.”
As part of his efforts to learn SS: Psionic Engineering, Brainchild studies other mentalists as much as he can. He’s particularly intrigued by Esper, partly due to the nature of her powers but partly because he finds her attractive. He’d love to meet her in person. He’s also very interested in studying psionic technology that other villains use, such as Cadaver’s Zombiefication Pistol.
Brainchild maintains informal contact via e-mail with other supervillains who are inventors or are known for their technological acumen, such as Lady Blue and Utility. They exchange informa- tion and bounce ideas off one another.
Appearance: Brainchild is an average-looking Caucasian man in his early thirties, 5’10” tall
with short, dark brown hair. He wears a dark blue jumpsuit sort of costume, with orange-red boots, belt, and gloves. The belt is clearly a high-tech gadget (it generates a force-field), and attached to it on the right hip is an orange-red holster holding his Molecular Destabilization Pistol. On his back he wears an orange-red jetpack, and on his head there’s an orange-red open-face helmet with goggles.
Campaign Use: Brainchild is a mercenary villain with a twist — one who’d rather supply equip- ment or help with planning a crime than carry out the crime himself. He could easily get mixed up with some people too powerful or evil for his own comfort, and need to turn to the PCs for help. Or, with some minor changes to his modus operandi, you could make him a member of GRAB.
If you want Brainchild to be more powerful (perhaps so he can serve as the focus of a scenario), give him a Gadget Pool. Alternately, you could boost his Psionic Powers Multipower to a
60 Active Point reserve, and all the slots accord- ingly. (You could also let him learn SS: Psionic Engineering and enhance his Psionic Powers with gadgetry.) If he’s too powerful or capable for your PCs, get rid of some of his gadgets.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Over the course of his career Brainchild has interacted with many other members of the Superhuman World, sometimes positively, sometimes not. His work as an underworld armorer makes him a competitor of Wayland Talos, and the two of them have become bitter rivals as a result. It wouldn’t take much for Brainchild to get angry enough to go after Talos to get revenge.
The flipside of the revenge coin is that VIPER’s still got Brainchild on its “wanted” list. The agent or supervillain who captures him (or can bring proof of his death) to VIPER will earn a big reward.
BRAINCHILD FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Brainchild if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Brainchild is a supervillain with minor psionic powers. He also builds and uses gadgets, including a molecular destabilization pistol, a force-field belt, and a jetpack.
K/R: Brainchild actually makes a lot of his money as an underworld armorer, supplying weapons and gadgets to other villains. His real name is Harold Jenkins.
-2: Brainchild stole some valuable data from VIPER years ago, and the snakes still want revenge on him.
-4: Brainchild really dislikes being mocked or insulted, and may become violent if subjected to such behavior.
-6: Brainchild is a mutant.
-8: Brainchild’s never learned how to build devices to enhance his psionic powers, but really wants to, and might take some serious risks to acquire that knowledge.

3 Nightsight: Infrared Perception (Sight Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
3 Nightsight: Ultraviolet Perception (Sight Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
Skills
3 Computer Programming 15- 3 Electronics 15-
3 Inventor 15-
1 AK: Millennium City 8-
2 KS: Current Events 11-
3 KS: General Knowledge And Trivia 15-
2 KS: Mentalists And Mental Powers 11-
3 KS: The Superhuman World 15-
2 KS: World Literature 11-
1 Mechanics 8-
3 Security Systems 15-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Systems Operation 15-
3 Scientist
2 1) SS: Anthropology 15-
2 2) SS: Biology 15-
2 3) SS: Chemistry 15-
2 4) SS: Physics 15-
2 5) SS: Psychology 15- Total Powers & Skills Cost: 217 Total Cost: 400
10 STR 0
18 DEX 16 13- 18 CON 8 13-
30 INT 20
25 EGO 15 14-
20 PRE 10
6 OCV 15 6 DCV 15 8 OMCV 15 8 DMCV 15
5 SPD 30
6 PD 4
8 ED 6 6 REC 2 55 END 7 10 BODY 0 30 STUN 5
15- PER Roll 15- 13- PRE Attack: 4d6
BRAINCHILD
11- Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 18 PD (12 rPD)
Total: 20 ED (12 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 183
Movement: Running: 12m Flight: 30m
Cost Powers
45 Psionic Powers: Multipower, 45-point reserve 4f 1) Brain Blast: Mental Blast 3d6
Constant (+1⁄2)
4f 2) Mental Control: Mind Control 5d6
Cumulative (60 points of effect; +3⁄4) 3f 3) Mind Games: Mental Illusions 6d6 3f 4) Telepathy: Telepathy 6d6
3f 5) Brain Scan: Mind Scan 6d6
1f 6) Brainlink: Mind Link (any one mind) 2f 7) Psychokinesis: Telekinesis (10 STR)
ACV (uses OMCV against DCV; +0), Line Of Sight (+1⁄2)
25 Molecular Destabilization Pistol: Multipower, 50-point reserve
All OAF (-1)
2f 1) Partial Destabilization: Blast 10d6
OAF (-1), No Knockback (-1⁄4), 12 Charges (-1⁄4) 2f 2) Disintegration: RKA 3d6
OAF (-1), No Knockback (-1⁄4), 12 Charges (-1⁄4)
END
4
4
3
3 400 3 10 0
3
Matching Complications (75)
Distinctive Features: Mutant (Not Concealable; Always Noticed; Detectable Only By Unusual Senses)
24 Force-Field Belt: Resistant Protection (12 PD/12 ED) OIF (-1⁄2)
15 Mindward: Mental Defense (15 points)
7 Force-Field Belt: Power Defense (10 points)
OIF (-1⁄2)
20 Jetpack: Flight 30m
OIF (-1⁄2)
6 Communications Array: HRRP
OIF (-1⁄2), Affected As Sight And Hearing Groups As Well As Radio Group (-1⁄2)
[12] [12]
0
0 0
3 0
20 Enraged: if insulted, belittled, or mocked (Common), go 11-, recover 11-
25 Hunted: VIPER (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture/Kill) 25 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Intellectual Arrogance (Very
Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Inferiority Complex; Must
Prove His “Superiority” (Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Greedy (Common, Strong) 15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Harold Jenkins)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0

