BULLDOZER
Background/History: “Ladies and gentlemen... the all-time wrestling champion of the world... undefeated in over three hundred matches... the holder of all heavyweight belts and titles... BULLLLLL-DOZER!”
As the roar of the crowd built to a crescendo, louder even than the “Rock You Like A Hurricane” blaring from the speakers, the champion himself stepped out into the arena, and the cheers got even louder. Tall, broad-chested, devilishly handsome, incredibly muscled, he lifted the ropes and stepped into the ring.
“Outta my way, you... PATHETIC... loser!”
he said, shoving the announcer to the side as he grabbed the microphone. “Hey, people! It’s great to be here tonight in Nashville!” More cheers from the hometown crowd.
“I bet you’re all wonderin’ how it is that Bull- dozer got to be the biggest, baddest, toughest, meanest, strongest wrestler the world has ever seen! All these other jabronies here tonight would love to know my secret, but since there’s no way they’ll ever be as good as me, I’ll tell you!
“I used to be an ordinary guy, like all’a you. I worked construction, drivin’ — you guessed it — a bulldozer! And no one was as good at bulldozin’ as me!
“One day my crew and I were cleaning up the wreckage of one of these supervillain labs. You know the kind of guy — a pencil-neck geek in a labcoat who couldn’t get a woman on his best day, sitting around designing killer robots. Well, I spent all day bulldozing that junk, and I guess there must’ve been something weird left lying around that those tights-wearing pansy superheroes didn’t find — some radioactive crap or a mutant virus or something.
“I spent all day — all day — bulldozing that stuff around. Any stupid magazine tells you other- wise is lying! No one makes Bulldozer quit, no one! When my eight hours were done, I got down off the ’dozer and headed over to the bar to have
a few brewskis. Yeah, that’s right, beer! None of those fancy wines or stupid umbrella drinks those heroes drink; I drink a man’s drink — beer!” More cheering from the crowd. He paused to let the roar die down a little.
“So here I am, driving home on my Harley,
and this woman in this beat-up old station wagon comes across the yellow line and slams into me! I know those magazines say I was the one who lost control, but they’re WRONG! Bulldozer NEVER loses control! I can ride better and fight better than any Hell’s Angel! She was checking out my fabulous form and stopped watching the road, that was what happened!

BULLDOZER
Val Char Cost Roll Notes
50 STR 40 19- 20 DEX 20 13- 30 CON 20 15- 8 INT -2 11- 10 EGO 0 11- 20 PRE 10 13-
7 OCV 20 6 DCV 15 3 OMCV 0 3 DMCV 0
Lift 12.5 tons; 10d6 HTH damage [5]
PER Roll 11- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 6, 9, 12 Total: 24 PD (14 rPD)
Total: 24 ED (14 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 246
4 SPD 24 PD
20
22
24 ED
20 REC 16 60END 8 20 BODY 10 70 STUN 25
Movement: Running: Leaping:
Cost Powers
22
12 Supertough Skin: Hardened (+1⁄4) for 24 PD, 24 ED 17 Supertough Skin: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 14 PD/14 ED
Hardened (+1⁄4)
20 Ha! You Think Your Stupid Attack Can Hurt Me?: Damage Negation (-3 DCs Physical and Energy) Requires A CON Roll (-1⁄2)
8 Strong Legs: Running +8m (20m total) Skills
24 +3 HTH
2 KS: Motorcycles 11-
2 KS: Professional Wrestling 11-
1 KS: The Superhuman World 8-
2 PS: Construction Worker 11-
2 TF: Construction And Agricultural Vehicles, Two-Wheeled
Motorized Ground Vehicles
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 90 Total Cost: 336
400 Matching Complications (75)
0 0
0 1
20 Enraged: if mocked or not taken seriously (Very Common), go 11-, recover 14-
25 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
15 Psychological Complication: Relentlessly Macho; Thinks
He’s God’s Gift To Women (Common, Strong)
10 Psychological Complication: Arachnaphobia (Fear Of
Spiders) (Uncommon, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Brad Powers)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0

BULLDOZER FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Bulldozer if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Bulldozer is a loudmouthed, trash-talking, super-strong villain.
K/R: His real name is Brad Powers; he used to be a construction worker.
-4: Bulldozer is terrified of spiders.

“So, the impact knocked me and my hog into this tree. Any other guy would’ve been dead as disco, but Bulldozer DON’T KILL THAT EASY! I wasn’t even knocked unconscious! The police say different, but they’re liars! They’re just jealous of this amazing bod of mine!” More cheers, mostly from women this time. He already had three women coming up to his hotel room later, but there were a few more in the crowd who were going to get an invitation. And no woman ever turned down the ’Dozer!
“I got sick of lying there, so without thinkin’ I pried apart what was left of my bike and walked away. I was ALWAYS strong and tough, but now
I was the strongest, toughest guy there ever was!
I crush buildings! I throw cars the way other men throw baseballs! There’s NO ONE AS... TOUGH... AS... ME!” The cheers were so loud he could barely hear himself talk, but it was time for the wrap-up. “I’m the envy of every man — and the fantasy of every woman!”
“Hey! — Bulldozer!” The sound of a nightstick on the bars of his cell brought him back to reality. Guard Kowalski wanted something.
“Hey there, sweet thing; you finally ready to spend some time with a real man?”
“Shut up, you pig. Get ready; you’re being transferred to the Class C ward; we need this maximum-security cell for someone who’s actually dangerous.”
Personality/Motivation: Bulldozer is one of
the most overbearing, obnoxious villains in the Superhuman World. He thinks he’s the strongest, toughest, most unbeatable guy there is, despite the fact he’s almost never won a fight against another super-strong person. His ambition is to be the greatest pro wrestling villain ever, and he acts
like it; he desperately hopes someone will start a superhuman wrestling league so he can prove just how good he is.
Bulldozer is relentlessly macho, insulting anyone weaker than him (“wimps”) and coming on to any woman who’s even remotely attractive (“They all want a piece of the ’Dozer”). He doesn’t take women, even superheroines, seriously at
all. The first time a female superhero hits him in HTH Combat, he may take extra damage from the shock — though he’ll quickly bounce back to “put her in her place.”
Quote: “You think you can take me on, wimp?!?? Get ready to feel what pain is really like!”
Powers/Tactics: Bulldozer is a classic “brick,” with superhuman strength and resistance to injury. If he’s ready for the impact, he can bounce powerful attacks off his super-tough skin. That’s about all he’s got going for him.

In combat, Bulldozer looks for the biggest, toughest male on the opposite side and selects him for “a beating he’ll never forget!” He constantly talks trash, often opening the battle not with a punch but with a feat of strength and a Presence Attack — that way he not only impresses the ladies, he lets the other guy know who’s about
to pulp him. Insults like “geek,” “wimp,” “loser,” “bookworm,” and “dweeb” pepper his conversa- tion, making it all the more enjoyable to beat him.
Campaign Use: Bulldozer works best as a source of humor and entertainment, particularly in otherwise grim or serious games. His overinflated ego and non-stop posturing make it all the more satisfying for heroes to beat the daylights out
of him. He’s nowhere near tough or competent enough to take on an entire superteam; he works best as a master villain’s hireling or part of a villain team (though who’d want to be teammates with him remains a mystery).
Making Bulldozer more powerful doesn’t always work well, because it’s more fun for him to be so obnoxious even though he’s not as strong as many bricks. But you can easily boost his STR and defenses if necessary, and perhaps even give him some “brick trick” abilities (though nothing too sophisticated or requiring any finesse). Making him weaker involves reducing his STR and defenses.
Bulldozer often Hunts heroes — mostly super-strong ones who’ve beaten him, so he can get “a rematch” — but not very effectively. He simply confronts them in public, again and again, always convinced when he loses that “the wimp cheated!” and that next time he’ll show him who the toughest man is.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Pretty much no one else in the Superhuman World likes Bull- dozer. Super-strong male superhumans get tired of his posturing, his challenges, and his insults. Superheroines and villainesses get even more tired of his come-ons, his crude comments, and his misogyny. Even Ogre, who’s not exactly sophisti- cated, thinks Bulldozer is a jackass.
Appearance: Bulldozer is a big guy — about 6’5” tall — with the broad shoulders and extraordi- narily well-developed musculature of a super- strong human. He shaves his head, and has the word “BULLDOZER” tattooed down the length of his right arm. He usually wears nothing more than cut-off jeans and workboots — after all, he knows how much women enjoy the unobstructed view of his rippling muscles.

