BUZZSAW
Background/History: Despite the fact that his friends always thought of him as “one lucky sonu- vagun,” Ron Friese hadn’t accomplished much in life. He sort of coasted through high school, never getting into serious trouble but not making a name for himself either. After graduation he went to truck driving school and got a job driving the big rigs. It paid well, but it wasn’t exactly stimu- lating work.
Then one day in a bar, Ron got into a long conversation with this guy. The guy was talking all about how he belonged to this group of winners — tough guys who didn’t let “the man” tell them what to do and got rich on their own terms. The more he talked, the better it sounded to Ron, even if some of the things he described weren’t even close to legal. He told the guy he’d like to join up with this “group of winners.”
He woke up the next morning in a VIPER training facility with a raging hangover — turned out that guy he’d been drinking with was a VIPER recruiter. Joining up with the snakes seemed like a good idea to Ron (or at least a helluva lot more exciting than driving a truck!), so he didn’t try
to run away. But he soon found out that VIPER training wasn’t all blaster practice and mock combats; there were lots of guys ordering you around, making you clean stuff and do all kinds of disgusting chores.
One day when he refused to clean the Voltaic Chamber after one of the Nest Leader’s “informa- tion extraction sessions,” Ron was severely beaten and punished with a week of janitorial duty. Later that night as he worked and nursed his bruises, he came to one of the labs. He wasn’t even allowed in there, but someone had left the door unlocked and there was still a light on inside. He snuck in and found one of the Nest’s scientists burning the midnight oil as he put the finishing touches on
a new weapon — a pair of gauntlets that could launch razor-sharp blades at high velocity.
Then Ron got an Idea. Why stick around here and do grunt work when he could make himself rich with those gauntlets? He bashed the scientist in the head, put on the gauntlets, snatched up the CD with all the project data on it, and fought his way past security to freedom. He almost didn’t make it, but by a stroke of dumb luck a couple
of the agents pursuing him were hit by a pickup truck, and that created enough of a distraction for him to lose his hunters.
The next time the world saw Ron Friese he was wearing a blue and white costume to go with the gauntlets and calling himself Buzzsaw. And, as he likes to put it, “the world ain’t never been the same since!”
Personality/Motivation: Despite copious evidence that he’s not the cleverest, most powerful super- crook ever, Buzzsaw has a streak of confidence a mile wide. There’s no challenge he can’t tackle, no hero he can’t fight, no girl he can’t get, no problem he can’t solve. His persistent “dumb luck” may have a lot to do with this, but Buzzsaw tends to be clueless about a lot of things... particularly his own shortcomings.
Quote: “Time to cut you down to size, pal.”
Powers/Tactics: Buzzsaw’s only real “power” is his Buzzsaw Shooter Gauntlets, which can be pretty deadly and with which he’s pretty skilled (for example, he has several Autofire Skills). For him, tactical sophistication is making a Multiple Attack with his two Gauntlets at once — usually he just moves into position and starts firing. He’ll choose the most obvious (largest, flashiest, most dangerous) target first, but is smart enough to move on to someone else if it becomes apparent his buzzsaws can’t really affect that person.
Campaign Use: Buzzsaw is on the low end of
the totem pole in the Superhuman World of the Champions Universe. He’s basically just an athletic guy with a gimmicky gadget — take the Gauntlets away from him and there’s really nothing to him. That makes him great “cannon fodder” for all sorts of employers, and someone the PCs can take out quickly to show how powerful they are. But you never know; some master villain may decide to take him on as a “project” and “upgrade” him...
...which could involve one of several approaches. Cybernetic implants could boost his Characteristics, making him faster, stronger, and deadlier. More gadgets would give him a greater range of tactical options, and probably more defense and movement. Or you could transform him from a bumbler into a skilled warrior-athlete by raising his Acrobatics and Breakfall rolls, increasing his Running, giving him some Martial Arts, and so on. To weaken him, remove most (or all) of his Autofire Skills.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: VIPER still wants its Buzzsaw Gauntlets back from Buzzsaw, and isn’t particularly picky about whether he’s
still alive when it gets them. One of VIPER’s Dragon Branch villains, Oculon, particularly hates Buzzsaw and would happily see him dead.
Appearance: Buzzsaw is a white male, 5’8” tall with a slender, athletic build. His costume is
blue and white; its most notable element are the double-barrelled “bladeshooter” gauntlets on both of his hands, which shoot razor-sharp blades (usually they look like miniature sawblades, but sometimes they’re disks with ordinary edges).

BUZZsaW
3 3
11- 12- 12- 11- 11- 12-
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 11-
PRE Attack: 21⁄2d6
Phases: 3, 6, 9, 12 Total: 13 PD (8 rPD)
Total: 13 ED (8 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 93
12m 6m
38 Buzzsaw Shooter Gauntlets: RKA 2d6 [64] Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), Autofire (5 shots; +1⁄2),
64 Charges (+1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2), No Knockback (-1⁄4)
5 Buzzsaw Shooter Gauntlets: Another Gauntlet
(total of 2) [64]
16 Armored Costume: Resistant Protection (8 PD/8 ED) OIF (-1⁄2)
0 1 Strong Leaper: Leaping +2m (6m forward, 3m upward) 1
10 Dumb Luck: Luck 2d6 0 Skills
8 +4 OCV with Buzzsaw Shooter Gauntlets
5 Accurate Sprayfire 1 Acrobatics 8-
3 Breakfall 12-
5 Rapid Autofire
5 Skipover Sprayfire
3 Stealth 12-
1 TF: Large Motorized Ground Vehicles Total Powers & Skills Cost: 101
Total Cost: 194
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: VIPER (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Kill)
25 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Psychological Complication: Overconfidence (Very
Common, Moderate)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Ron Friese)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0

BUZZSAW FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Buzzsaw if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Buzzsaw is a costumed criminal who wears super-tech gauntlets that shoot incredibly sharp “buzzsaw” missiles.
K/R: His real name is Ron Friese; he used to be a VIPER agent.
-1: Despite being a low-powered villain, Buzzsaw’s extremely overconfi- dent, willing to take on just about any challenge.