CADAVER
Background/History: James Cadmus was a research biologist at Millennium City University who was studying the genetic mechanisms of aging and death. He was convinced that he could find a way to treat the body so that it would age far more slowly and be significantly less prone to aging-related maladies.
Initially Cadmus’s theories showed promise, but he soon ran into roadblocks. Becoming increasingly frustrated, he directed his research down other, less ethically acceptable, avenues. Eventually the University found out; he was fired and his grant money rescinded.
Raging at the fools who couldn’t see how
close he was to a major breakthrough, Cadmus continued working on his own in a laboratory he cobbled together with what little money he had, and some more he borrowed from VIPER. Finally, after months of nearly non-stop work, he had one of those breakthroughs he’d been talking about for years. He invented a device he called the Rejuva- Ray, which he believed would retard, and perhaps even reverse, the aging process in human beings. And who better to test it on than himself?
He strapped himself in and started the machinery. Just as the power built to maximum and the device began to emit a loud technological whine in preparation for firing, a squad of VIPER agents burst in. Cadmus owed the snakes money. He hadn’t responded to the Nest Leader’s demands for payment, so now they were here to make him pay!
Unfortunately the agents came in at precisely the wrong time. Their attack damaged the Rejuva- Ray machine. It exploded, bombarding Cadmus with improperly calibrated energies and setting his makeshift laboratory on fire. All but one of the agents was killed by the blast and flames. Assuming Cadmus had perished as well, VIPER wrote the whole thing off as a loss.
But Cadmus had lived. Somehow the strange rays had changed him. Instead of slowing the biological processes that led to death, they’d somehow sped them up without killing him. He looked like a corpse, but he wasn’t one. In fact, he was stronger, tougher, and faster than most humans despite the fact that he resembled a zombie.
Thinking he could reverse the process, Cadmus went back to work. Unfortunately, the explosion and fire had destroyed all his data, and something about the accident had affected his mind. Try as he might, he couldn’t keep his mind on track or think as clearly as he once had. The more he worked,
the more thoughts of controlling other people, of having humanity obey him, crept into his mind.
It wasn’t long before Cadmus’s new personality totally overwhelmed his old. He began refer-
ring to himself as Cadaver and started work on
a new invention: a “zombiefiction pistol” that allowed him to control other peoples’ thoughts. Despite the trouble he’d had trying to re-create
his Rejuva-Ray, developing the pistol came to him easily. Soon he was stalking the streets, looking for victims for his newfound powers.
Personality/Motivation: Two conflicting emotions rule Cadaver’s mind. The first, and strongest, is a desire to control people. He’s never satisfied with having just a few slaves; he wants lots of them, and eventually he wants to control everyone on the planet.
The other impulse, which seems to grow weaker as the years pass, is a desire for a new, improved body. He doesn’t just want to go back to his old body (though that would be better than nothing), he wants to undo the negative aspects of the accident (the grey skin, for example) while keeping the positive ones (such as enhanced strength and reflexes). If he hears about a PC or NPC who does scientific work that might assist in this project, he’ll probably try to steal their data (or even kidnap them).
Quote: “Now you are my slave... soon all the world will follow.”
Powers/Tactics: Cadaver’s accidental transforma- tion to a corpse-like being wasn’t entirely a bad thing. While he looks hideous, he’s a lot stronger, tougher, and faster than ordinary humans, and he doesn’t need to eat or sleep. But that by itself isn’t enough to accomplish his goals, so he invented the Zombiefication Pistol, which lets him take control of peoples’ minds. Depending on the setting, he can exert either short-term or long-term control (though even the long-term control will wear off eventually if he doesn’t renew it with repeated shots). Either setting turns the victim’s skin the same shade of grey as his own (and sometimes makes their hair fall out), so it’s obvious whom he’s controlling.
Unless he’s working with other villains, Cadaver usually prefers to remain in the back- ground and let controlled minions do his fighting and dirty work. This is particularly effective because he knows superheroes and cops won’t use many of their abilities or weapons on his minions for fear of harming innocent people. If he thinks the odds are turning against him he’s quick to flee.
Campaign Use: Cadaver could work by himself, or could join a team of other villains. Plots he devises on his own will almost always revolve around attempting to take control of large numbers of people (for example, he might try to build his mind control technology into radio transmitters so he can control the thoughts of anyone who listens to the radio).
To make Cadaver a tougher foe (since right now he’s sort of a one-trick pony), you have two options. First, you could give him more powers related to his “semi-living” state. For example, perhaps he has powers of spirit projection or control (see Champions Powers for some possibili- ties). Second, you could give him more weapons and gadgets. Perhaps the skulls he wears on his bandolier are actually some type of gas grenade, for instance.

CADAVER FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Cadaver if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Cadaver is zombie-like supervil- lain with corpse-grey skin. He’s tough
and strong, but his main superpower
is his “Zombiefica- tion Pistol” that lets him take over other people.
K/R: The victims of Cadaver’s Zombiefi- cation Pistol have grey skin that matches his own; he can’t hide the fact that he’s controlling someone.
-4: Cadaver’s crimes mostly involve trying to take control of lots of people, but some involve the theft
of biological data, equipment, and the like.
-6: Attacks that manipulate or project Life Energy are particularly effective against Cadaver due to his “semi-living” state.
-8: Cadaver would like to “restore” his body to its normal human look while keeping his super- human abilities, or perhaps even to build himself an all-new body.
-10: His Secret Identity is James Cadmus; he used
to be a scientist working on life- extension technology.

Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
20 STR 18 DEX 22 CON 15 INT 14 EGO 25 PRE
10
16 13- 12 13-
15
Lift 400 kg; 4d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 12 PD (6 rPD)
Total: 12 ED (6 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 174
18m
7 OCV 20 6 DCV 15 3 OMCV 0 5 DMCV 6
5 SPD 12 PD
30
10
12 ED
8 REC 4 40END 4 13 BODY 3 40 STUN 10
Movement: Running:
10
CADAVER
Cost Powers END
84 Zombiefication Pistol: Multipower, 135-point reserve [32] 32 Charges for entire Multipower (+1⁄4); all OAF (-1)
3f 1) Short-Term Zombiefication: Mind Control 12d6 ACV (uses OCV versus DMCV; +1⁄4); OAF (-1),
Perceivable (victim is obviously Mind Controlled, see text; -1⁄4)
4f 2) Long-Term Zombiefication: Severe Transform 6d6 (person into Cadaver’s willing slave, heals back normally)
ACV (uses OCV against DMCV; +1⁄4), AVAD (Mental Defense; +0), Works Against EGO, Not BODY (+1⁄4); OAF (-1), Limited Target (mental “objects” in the minds of sentient beings; -1⁄2), Perceivable (victim
is obviously controlled, see text; -1⁄4), Requires 3 Charges (-3⁄4)
6 Semi-Living Body: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 6 PD/6 ED 0 60 Semi-Living Body: Damage Negation (-6 DCs Physical
and Energy) 0 16 Semi-Living Body: Regeneration (1 BODY per Turn) 0 35 Semi-Living Body: Life Support (Total) 0 6 Swift Runner: Running +6m (18m total) 1
Skills
9 +3 with Zombiefication Pistol Multipower
2 Computer Programming 10- 1 Electronics 8-
3 SS: Biology 12-
3 SS: Chemistry 12-
3 SS: Genetics 12-
5 SS: Mind Control Technology 14- 3 SS: Physics 12-
1 SS: Psionic Engineering 8-
3 Stealth 13-
2 Systems Operation 10-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 249
Total Cost: 423
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Distinctive Features: grey, corpse-like skin, no hair, no lips, and glowing red eyes (Concealable with Effort, Causes Extreme Reaction [fear, disgust])
20 Hunted: Sentinels (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Psychological Complication: Megalomaniac; Wants To
Control Everyone In The World (Common, Strong)
10 Psychological Complication: Wants New, Improved Body
(Uncommon, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (James Cadmus)
(Frequently, Major)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Life Energy attacks
(Uncommon)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x BODY from Life Energy attacks
(Uncommon)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 23

Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Cadaver has worked with other villains in the past, either as a partner or a hireling, but he doesn’t get jobs like that often. Most villains just find him too creepy; the mystic villains that might appreciate his creep- iness are a bit put off by his use of technology.
Cadaver is intensely interested in any villain who might have the biological know-how to restore him to a “better body,” such as Teleios or Dr. Moreau. Unfortunately he’s still a bit too low on the supervillain food chain to have a chance of getting in touch with them... but if the oppor- tunity arises, he’ll jump at it no matter how many minions he has to sacrifice.
On the other hand, at least one villain — Brain- child — is equally interested in Cadaver, but for his technology not his powers. Brainchild believes (correctly) that studying the Zombiefication Pistol would be enough to get him started learning Psionic Engineering.
Cadaver bitterly hates VIPER for destroying his Rejuva-Ray and “forcing” him to become a super- villain. He won’t work for the snakes, and in fact will take any chances he has to interfere with their plans... provided he thinks he can do so safely.
Appearance: The Cadaver is a male, 5’10” tall, with grey skin the color of a corpse. He has no hair on his head except for eyebrows, his eyes glow a demonic red, and he has no lips (so his teeth
can be seen). His costume consists of a brown breechcloth, brown boots, brown leather wrap- pings around his hands and lower arms, a brown “collar” around his neck, and a brown bandolier to which he’s attached several jawless human skulls. On his left hip he wears a holster that holds his Zombification Pistol.
