CAIRNGORM
Background/History: Most people who look at Andrews MacAllister think nothing of him. He’s just an old man, the guy who runs the rare book shop downtown, the one who always seems to have an annoyed look on his face and doesn’t like to talk to anyone unless they’re a customer. That’s all accu- rate enough — on the surface. But there are depths to Andrews MacAllister, depths like ancient caves... caves filled with the darkest shadows.
As a young man, MacAllister was simply bitter and misanthropic. As he got older, his dislike
of his fellow man worsened. Then one day, he read in an ancient incunabula of a secret sect of druids — druids who served the Old Gods of earth and forest and stream, druids who rejected the company of man to such an extent that they spilled human blood on their altars.
MacAllister had never paid any attention to religion before, and he certainly didn’t believe
in magic, but he found the thought of this cult... intriguing. He began researching it, learning all that he could. Soon that led to explorations of the occult. When he felt he’d learned enough, he went in search of the cult... for something told him it had survived to the modern day.
It took years of searching and undergoing many harrowing experiences, but in time MacAl- lister’s faith was rewarded. On a moonless night in the heart of a thick forest that had never known the touch of axe or chainsaw he found them. Recognizing his desire, and the power within him, the Dark Druids admitted him to their circle of worship of the Old Gods.
MacAllister began to learn real magic — and it wasn’t long unti the blood of his first sacrificial victim flowed through his fingers. The feeling of it filled him with exultation, as if it were something he’d been missing all his life without knowing it.
So adept did MacAllister prove at the work of the Dark Druids that he soon surpassed most of his teachers and became one of the group’s leaders. Only one other druid, a man named Leach, was accounted greater than he in learning and power. The thought of it consumed MacAllister with
envy and hatred, but he masked his emotions
and agreed to help Leach with the circle’s greatest project ever: the quest for a powerful enchanted item they could sense lay somewhere within the British Isles.
For years the Dark Druids sought the item, eventually narrowing their search down to a particularly wild area of the Scottish Highlands. They explored the area carefully and found a cave, one that led deep into the earth. Lighting torches, they went into the depths. They were so close now that all of them could feel the item’s power.
At last they emerged into a large natural cavern. In the midst of the cavern was a strange altar, though none of them could say whether it was a natural formation or made by the hand of man. And on that altar sat a brown gem shot through with amethyst-like veins.
The Dark Druids moved forward, eager to seize the item, with Leach in the lead. But before he could lay his hands upon the gem, MacAllister seized him, threw him down upon the altar, and sacrificed him to the Old Gods. The other Dark Druids drew back in horror, knowing none of them could match MacAllister’s power.
With Leach’s blood streaming around his feet, MacAllister picked up the gem. It whispered in his mind, telling him it was the Earth Gem, full of power over “the bones of the earth and the clay of humanity.” As if compelled he pressed the Gem to his forehead. Pain wracked his body for a few moments, but then it passed. The Gem remained stuck to him, and he felt himself filled with power — greater power than any he had ever known. Taking the name Cairngorm to reflect his rebirth, he led the other Dark Druids out of the cave and into ever-greater darkness.
Personality/Motivation: Cairngorm is a devoted servant — perhaps the most devoted servant in the world — beings he refers to as “the Old Gods of Earth.” By this he means pre-Christian earth and nature deities whose intentions toward humanity aren’t always beneficial. In fact, he regularly sacri- fices human beings to the Old Gods, since human


blood energizes them and makes them inclined to look kindly on him and his followers and grant them small favors.
Even if he weren’t the leader of a cult of human-sacrificing druids, Cairngorm would still be a villain. He’s cruel, selfish, petty, vain, powerhungry, arrogant, and despises nearly
all of his fellow men. The fewer people there are in the world to bother him, the better he likes it. Worshipping the Old Gods just gives him an excuse to kill off as many humans as he can.
Quote: “Human fool! The powers of the Old Gods are manifest through me, and with them I will strike you down and cleanse the earth of your foul presence.”
Powers/Tactics: Cairngorm has a wide variety of powers, making him a flexible and dangerous opponent. First, the Earth Gem has enhanced his magic generally, making him
a formidable super-mage. He lacks the raw power of the likes of Dr. Yin Wu or Skarn the Shaper, but he knows plenty of clever ways to use his 40 Active Points’ worth of Variable Power Pool to cause trouble for his enemies. Most of his spells have a “druidic,” “nature,” or “earth” special effect of some sort, rather than looking like typical Thaumaturgy.
Second, the Earth Gem has given him two related sets of powers. At its most basic level,
it allows him to manipulate the earth and soil. He can cause earth to “flow” up and engulf a foe or form a barrier, or make it “open” as a pit beneath some- one’s feet. Most impressively, at his command the earth “lashes out” with a spear- or tentacle- like protrusion to bash his foes. He can also “ride” on a “wave” of earth, or cause the earth to part so that he “burrows” through it. More fundamentally, the Earth Gem grants its possessor control over “human clay” — a person’s flesh and bones, in other words. He hasn’t fully mastered all these powers yet, but so far can use them to force a person to move as he wills, bend bones and
CAIRNGORM FACTS
joints in incredibly painful ways, or heal injured flesh.
The Earth Gem isn’t a Focus; it’s been attached to Cairngorm’s body for so long that it’s now a part of him (it could only be removed with a combination of surgery and mystic rituals). In fact it’s “infused” his body with the power of earth, making his bones as tough as rock and his flesh as durable as the ground. As a result he’s highly resis- tant to injury and can survive various conditions that would kill normal people.
Campaign Use: Cairngorm can function in your campaign in many different ways. The most common is as a quasi-master villain leading
the Dark Druids and hatching plots of his own. Usually these take place in the United Kingdom or Europe, but he goes where the Old Gods tell him to. On the other hand, despite his general misan- thropy he might team up with other villains if he found a good reason to, or the Old Gods require
it of him.
If you want to use Cairngorm frequently in
your campaign, you should consider this question: who or what are the Old Gods? Are they actual pagan deities inimical to human life? Demons masquerading as gods? Corrupt Empyreans? Extradimensional invaders? Or something else altogether?
To make Cairngorm tougher, expand either or both of his Multipowers (see the relevant sections of Champions Powers for plenty of possible new powers). To weaken him, convert the Earth Gem to an OAF so the PCs can take it away from him (at least temporarily).
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Cairngorm hates humanity and prefers to have as little to do with it as possible, so he doesn’t really have posi- tive relationships with any other superhumans. The one exception is Samhain, whom he believes is also a servant of the Old Gods (even if he doesn’t know it), and who at times seems strangely willing to obey his commands.
Cairngorm particularly despises the Circle of the Scarlet Moon. The Circle and the Dark Druids have clashed over control of some sites of mystic significance in the British Isles, and he intends to wipe the Circle out as soon as he has the chance.
Appearance: Cairngorm looks like an aged but still vigorous white man. He seems to be about sixty years old, with grey hair that reaches to his shoulders and a grey beard. His dark, sunken eyes often flash with anger or glitter with malice. Attached to the center of his forehead is the Earth Gem, a facetless oval crystal that’s brown with veins of purple shot through it. He wears light brown hooded robes (with darker brown high- lights and accents) and often carries his curve- bladed sacrificial dagger. His hands are perma- nently stained red with the blood of the hundreds of people he’s murdered over the years.

Val Char Cost
20 STR 10
20 DEX 20
25 CON 15 14-
20 INT 10
20 EGO 10 13-
30 PRE 20
8 OCV 25
7 DCV 20
8 OMCV 15
8 DMCV 15 6 SPD 40
15 PD 13 15 ED 13 12 REC 8 80 END 12 17 BODY 7
60 STUN
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
END
CAIRNGORM
10 Sacrificial Dagger: HKA 1d6 (2d6-1 with STR) Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), +1 Increased STUN Multiplier
Roll Notes
(+1⁄4); OAF (-1), No Knockback (-1⁄4)
Earth-Infused Form: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 8 PD/8 ED 0
60 Earth-Infused Form: Physical and Energy Damage Reduction, 50%, Resistant 0
24 Earth-Infused Form: Life Support (Self-Contained Breathing, Diminished Eating: only needs to eat
once per week; Diminished Sleep: only needs
eight hours of sleep per week; Safe Environments: High Pressure, Intense Cold, Intense Heat, Low Pressure/Vacuum; Immunity [all poisons]) 0
42 Earthen Travel: Multipower, 42-point reserve
1f 1) Riding The Earth: Running +12m 1
Side Effect (RKA 11⁄2d6 to ground in an Area Of Effect (Line) equal in size to the distance the character moves, automatically occurs, only affects environ- ment; -1⁄2)
3f 2) Going Through The Earth: Tunneling 16m through 8 PD material, Fill In
Limited Medium (earth/stone; -1⁄2)
Talents
5 Fringe Benefit: Membership (leader of the Dark Druids)
Talents
3 Bump Of Direction
Skills
20 +2 with All Combat
Bureaucratics 10-
13- Lift 400 kg; 4d6 HTH damage [2]
13- 8
13- 15-
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack: 6d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 Total: 15 PD (8 rPD)
Total: 15 ED (8 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 273
24m 16m
20 Tunneling:
100 Thaumaturgy: Variable Power Pool (Magic Pool),
40 Pool + 40 Control Cost var Cosmic (+2)
80 Molding The Flesh Of Earth: Multipower, 80-point reserve
5f 1) The Earth Engulfs You: Entangle 8d6, 4 PD/4 ED 6
Only Affects Targets On The Ground (-1⁄4) 2 3f 2) The Earth Opens Beneath You: Tunneling 10m 1
through PD 5 materials
Usable As Attack (doesn’t affect characters with Flight; +11⁄4), Ranged (+1⁄2); Only To Form Pits Beneath Targets (-1)
6f 3) The Earth Lashes Out To Strike You: Blast 8d6
Indirect (Source Point and Path can differ from use to use; +1); Target Must Be On/Near Earth (within 16m; -1⁄4)
5
6
Forgery (Documents) 8-
3 AK: The British Isles 13-
3 KS: Arcane And Occult Lore 13-
2 KS: The Mystic World 11-
3 KS: Rare Books And Manuscripts 13-
3 PS: Book Collector 13-
1 Riding 8-
2 SS: Geology 11-
3 Stealth 13-
Trading 10-
5f 4) The Earth Rises Up To Block You: Barrier 4 PD/4
ED, 6 BODY (up to 15m long, 6m tall, and 3m thick), 2
Opaque (Sight Group)
75 Molding Human Clay: Multipower, 75-point reserve 3f 1) I Control Your Flesh: Telekinesis (30 STR)
ACV (uses OMCV against DCV; +0), Line Of Sight (+1⁄2); Only For Puppeteering (see APG 122; -1)
6f 2) I Twist Your Joints And Bend Your Bones: Drain BODY and DEX 3d6
Expanded Effect (two Characteristics simultaneously; +1⁄2), Delayed Return Rate (points return at the rate of 5 per Minute; +1); Only Works On Fleshy Beings (-1⁄4)
5 7
7
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 488 Total Cost: 761
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Hunted: New Knights Of The Round Table (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 10 Hunted: Dweomer (Infrequently, As Pow, Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Devoted Servant Of The
Old Gods Of Earth (Common, Total)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Andrews MacAl-
lister) (Frequently, Major)
20 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Fire attacks (Common) 20 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Fire attacks (Common) Total Complications Points: 75
Experience Points: 361

4f 3) I Repair What Has Been Torn Asunder: Healing BODY 4d6, Can Heal Limbs