CAPTAIN CHRONOS
Background/History: Suddenly, there was a blinding flash! — and then a funny-looking man in a silver lamé jumpsuit was standing in the middle of the street, where no one had been before.
He stood there for a few seconds, looking
all around him while passersby gawked. Some laughed, but he didn’t pay any attention. Then he took a careful look at some gizmo he had on his left arm. “Perfect!” he exclaimed. “2002, just as planned. I only hope I’m not too late....” And then he vanished, as if he’d never been there.
Captain Chronos claims to be from the future — the very distant future, thousands of years from the present day. According to what he’s told both heroes and reporters, he’s come back in time (or been sent back) “to prevent the collapse of the time-stream and save all reality.” He refuses to say any more, claiming that if he gives people from this timeframe too much information, it could have “a negative effect on history.”
Though most people think he’s simply a nut, he’s not lying. He is from the future, and he did come back to save reality. In the year 6000 AD, Earth is a wasteland, an ecological disaster zone where the few remaining humans live in domed cities. A group of scientists, hoping to avert this disaster, built a powerful, sophisticated robot they were going to send back in time to change history and preserve Earth. One of the scientists, Dr. Mgn, tried to stop them, claiming they didn’t under- stand time travel and historical manipulation well enough yet to be sure of succeeding. Unfortu- nately for humanity, Dr. Mgn was right... and he was unable to convince any of his colleagues.
“Project Savior” went forward as planned, but chronal instabilities during the robot’s trip back in time warped its programming, sending it to 1985 instead of 5198 and turning it into the fiendish, life-destroying Mechanon, one of the worst super- villains in human history. When Earth of 6000 AD didn’t change as expected, Dr. Mgn went back to work, studying time travel and historology. In time he had a son, Hzl, and trained him to follow in his footsteps.
By the time Hzl was an adult, he and his father felt they had enough of an understanding of the nature of Time to try to correct the mistake that had been made. Equipping himself with portable time-travel technology, Hzl journeyed back in time to the late twentieth century. To more easily “blend in,” he adopted the costumed identity of Captain Chronos.
Captain Chronos hasn’t confronted Mechanon directly yet because Mechanon is a temporal “wild card.” Any interaction between the two of them is likely to have severe consequences for the future course of history, so Chronos doesn’t want to try to stop Mechanon once and for all until either

(a) he’s certain there’s no chance he’ll fail, or (b) he has to act to prevent an even greater possible chrono-disaster. He’s already aware that he can’t just transport Mechanon through time, and that his powers will have little (if any) impact on the evil robot (see The Book Of The Machine, page 44, for more information about Mechanon and time travel). But he has to defeat Mechanon somehow and “repair” the timestream, or the sixty-first century is doomed. And he can’t even tell anyone from the twenty-first century about it, lest he risk radically changing future history and making his job even harder!
Personality/Motivation: As Captain Chronos, the young Dr. Mgn’s goal is twofold: first, to correct the problems his father’s friends caused by sending the Saviour Unit (now known as Mechanon)
back into the past; second, to alter the course of history just enough that sixty-first century Earth is a paradise rather than a wasteland. In short, he has to defeat Mechanon and then alter Reality — not exactly a simple task. He’s painfully aware of just how easy it is for him to do something
in the past that would have unintended nega-
tive consequences in the future, so every step he takes is taken with extreme caution after extensive chrono-calculations to determine the impact of his actions. To make sure that things go the way he wants them to, he sometimes has to do things that seem incomprehensible, weird, mysterious, or even criminal or evil, but ultimately it’s all in
a very good cause. He can’t tell anyone about his mission because giving people glimpses of their own future could change that future, and that could cause even more problems.
As a scientist/historian, Captain Chronos
has a strong streak of scientific curiosity, and this sometimes sidetracks him in the middle of an adventure — he’s fascinated by the things he sees and people he meets, and sometimes can’t resist learning more: “Hey, you’re Ironclad! Wow, it’s great to meet you. I’ve read all about you in my history books!” He often starts to describe a famous event from another person’s life, real- izes that event hasn’t happened yet, and stops halfway through a sentence. People who spend a lot of time around him may soon find this a little annoying.
Given the precision with which he times everything he does, Captain Chronos gets really annoyed with people who are habitually late or dawdle. He’s got things to do, and doesn’t want someone who doesn’t understand what’s at stake wasting his time. He often gives people like that advanced chronographs of his own making, programmed to beep them with reminders when he wants them to be somewhere or do something.
Quote: “Wow, that was great! It was just like the time you beat Firewing with... oh, wait, hasn’t happened yet. Never mind!”

Powers/Tactics: Captain Chronos wears a Chro- nosuit that gives him the ability to manipulate the passage of time. Besides giving him the power to travel through time (Extra-Dimensional Move- ment), this allows him to achieve many other effects, such as:
Temporal Acceleration — Captain Chronos accelerates a person through time so rapidly the victim ages, withers, and eventually dies/collapses.
Temporal Disharmony — Captain Chronos “jerks” the target backward and forward through time, stressing the target’s system to the point where he passes out.
No Sleep ’Til Brooklyn — Captain Chronos rapidly accelerates the target through time for about a day, until the target is too sleepy to remain awake.
Age Manipulation — Captain Chronos reverses or accelerates the flow of time around a person or object, making it younger or older.
Temporal Ambush — Captain Chronos stops time throughout reality, puts a big physical object (like a rock) over his target’s head, slightly redi- rects an attack or moving object, or otherwise puts his target in harm’s way. Then he returns to where he was standing and starts time again. The rock falls (or the like), hurting the target. To the target and everyone else, it’s as if the rock appeared out of nowhere to fall on him!
Fast Time, Slow Time Bubbles, Rapid Healing — Captain Chronos can put a person in a bubble of fast time (to make him move much more quickly, though this tires the subject out quickly) or slow time (to keep him from moving at his normal speed). He can also put someone in a bubble of fast time so they heal from their injuries in the blink of an eye.
Stop Time Bubble — Captain Chronos can put the target in a bubble of stopped time, preventing him from moving or doing anything. Only people with temporal or dimensional manipula- tion powers can escape until Captain Chronos chooses to disperse the bubble. (Editor’s note: this is bought as an NND Entangle, which is an egregious rules violation — but it’s all in the sake of fun. If you don’t want to open up this can of worms, though, just ignore this attack.)
Rapid Transit — Captain Chronos stops time throughout reality, walks up to 60m from where he started, and then starts time again. To others, he seems to have vanished from his starting point and reappeared instantly at his destination.
Walkin’ To Jerusalem — Captain Chronos stops time throughout reality, walks across Earth to get to wherever he wants to go, and then re-starts time. If he wants to cross the ocean, he selectively reverses time around Earth until he reaches the point where the continents are joined together, walks to where he wants to be, and then fast- forwards time back to the present day.
Gone Out For Food — Captain Chronos stops time throughout reality, walks to whatever restau- rant he feels like eating at, starts time so he can get something to eat, then reverses time and walks back to where he was. He often brings food back to his friends, keeping it in a stop time bubble so it remains fresh:
“I sure could go for some Greek food,” Defender said.
::Captain Chronos gets up:: “One second....”
::Captain Chronos doesn’t appear to move, but suddenly there’s a basket of food in his hand:: “Here, I got this from this great little place I know in Athens — in 1869.”
By manipulating time, Captain Chronos
can also perform incredibly fast mathematical calculations, move before anyone else in combat, and so forth. Many of Captain Chronos’s powers won’t work against someone who also has temporal manipulation powers, or dimensional manipulation powers (such as many forms of Teleportation).
Additionally, Captain Chronos wears two important gadgets. The first is his Chronogoggles, which allow him to view the past or the future without actually having to travel there. In his spare time he uses them, in conjunction with his HRRP, to watch episodes of classic TV shows on the date they were originally broadcast. Through their precognitive function, the Chronogoggles let him perceive, and thus avoid, dangerous situations just about to occur. The second is his Omnichronom- eter, the most advanced and accurate timepiece ever created. It not only tells him what time it is right now, it tells him what point in time he’s at in the entire timestream, can keep track of the time between or until multiple events, and so on. Even though the Captain is naturally attuned to the basic passage of time, the Omnichronometer is invaluable to him.
In combat, Captain Chronos is a reasonably effective fighter. Not only does his unusual set
of powers give him plenty of attack options, he can use Fast Time to make his allies even more dangerous than normal. His Time Shift Field (which advances everything inside it by about a picosecond, creating a nearly impenetrable protec- tive barrier) protects him from counterattack. He typically uses Temporal Ambush, Slow Time, Fast Time, and Stop Time the most, saving his more unusual attacks for unusual circumstances.
Because he’s not from this time period, there’s something subtly “wrong” about Captain Chronos, even when he’s in his Secret Identity. Most people notice this discomfitting feeling, though they can never explain exactly what it is.
Campaign Use: Captain Chronos is a walking plot device. He can show up anywhere and do just about anything. Since he has to keep his motives mysterious, he’s likely to clash with the heroes as much as help them — “Hey, why’s Chronos all
of a sudden trying to kidnap the Senator?” Since he can’t explain why it’s crucial to reality that the Senator be elsewhere in 3.729571846 hours, he ends up looking like a villain.

CAPTAIN CHRONOS
Val Char Cost Roll Notes
Cost Powers END
10 STR 20 DEX 20 CON 20 INT 18 EGO 20 PRE
0 11- 20 13- 10 13- 10 13-
8 13- 10 13-
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 (2, 3, 5, 6, 8, 9, 11, 12)
Total: 36 PD (30 rPD) Total: 36 ED (30 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 180
OIF (chronosuit; -1⁄2)
75 7f
6f
7f
7f
7f 3f
7f 1f
7f
75 12
60 6f
6f 5f
4
Temporal Manipulation Powers: Multipower, 112-point reserve
All OIF (chronosuit; -1⁄2)
1) Temporal Acceleration: RKA 11⁄2d6
NND (defense is temporal/dimensional manipulation
powers or Life Support [Longevity]; +1), Does BODY (+1), Constant (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2)
2) Temporal Disharmony: Blast 6d6
NND (defense is temporal/dimensional manipulation powers or Life Support [Longevity]; +1), Constant (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2)
3) No Sleep ’Til Brooklyn: Blast 9d6
NND (defense is temporal/dimensional manipula-
tion powers or Life Support [Diminished Sleep]; +1),
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2)
4) Age Manipulation: Major Transform 6d6 (anything
0
0
0
7 OCV 20 7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0 6 DMCV 9 5+3 SPD30+20*
6 PD 4 6 ED 4 10 REC 6 40 END 4 10 BODY 0 30 STUN 5
*:
into older/younger/newer version of itself; heals via the application of any chronal manipulation power) 0 Improved Result Group (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2)
5) Temporal Ambush: Blast 8d6 (physical) 0 Indirect (Source Point and Path can vary from use to
use; +1), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2)
6) Fast Time Bubble: Aid SPD 7d6 6 Ranged (+1⁄2), OIF (-1⁄2), Recipient Must Spend 2 END
Per Point Of Extra SPD Used While Aid Remains In
Effect (-1⁄2)
7) Slow Time Bubble: Drain SPD 7d6 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2)
8) Stop Time Bubble: Entangle 1d6, 1 PD/1 ED 15
NND (defense is temporal/dimensional manipula- tion powers, see text; +1), Takes No Damage From Attacks (+1); OIF (-1⁄2), Costs Endurance To Maintain (-1⁄4), Increased Endurance Cost (x5 END; -2)
9) Rapid Healing: Simplified Healing 9d6 4 Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); OIF (-1⁄2)
Time Shift Field: Resistant Protection (30 PD/30 ED) 0 Hardened (+1⁄4); OIF (-1⁄2)
Chronogoggles Picture-Within-A-Picture: +5 DCV 0 OIF (-1⁄2), Requires A Danger Sense Roll (-1⁄2)
Time Travelling: Multipower, 90-point reserve All OIF (chronosuit; -1⁄2)
1) Time Travel: Extra-Dimensional Movement (any
date or place in time), x4 Increased Mass 6 OIF (-1⁄2)
2) Rapid Transit: Teleportation 60m 0 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2)
3) Walkin’ To Jerusalem: Teleportation 20m 0 MegaScale (1m = 10,000 km; +2), Reduced
Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
OIF (-1⁄2)
Gone Out For Food: Life Support (Diminished Eating:
No Need To Eat) 0 Usable Simultaneously (up to 8 people at once; +1);
OIF (-1⁄2)
Movement: Running: 12m Teleportation: 60m


Champions Villains Volume Three: Solo Villains n Captain Chronos
If you need to make Captain Chronos more powerful, the best way is to increase the strength of his defenses until he’s almost impossible to hurt — his powers are already effective (and strange) enough (though you could
add some Active Points to them if you wanted). You could also get rid of his OIF and turn all his powers into natural abilities. Making him less effective is tricky, but you can shave some points off of his various chronal powers if you take care not to make him completely ineffective.
Captain Chronos would only Hunt a hero if he were convinced the hero was somehow crucial to preventing the temporal disaster he’s here to save the world from. If that’s the case, though, he’ll stop at nothing (short of killing) to remove the hero from the picture, or make sure he’s where he must be at a given point in time.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries:
Other heroes and villains generally don’t know what to make of Captain Chronos, and as a result most of them want nothing to do with him. But sometimes heroes are trusting enough (or desperate enough), or villains greedy enough,
to accept his help despite the fact they know he has a hidden agenda.
Captain Chronos keeps as close an eye as he can on Timelapse (page 302) and other time-manipulating villains, who are “wild cards” in his plans and need to be controlled so they don’t cause irrevocable damage to the timestream.
Captain Chronos is Mechanon’s most implacable foe (though Mechanon doesn’t know it). See above for more information.
Appearance: Captain Chronos wears
a silver lamé bodysuit sort of thing, seemingly patterned after the aviator outfits worn by some Pulp-era heroes. The right glove and both boots are flared; the left glove is not flared because most of his left forearm is encased in what looks like a mini-computer (it’s actually the most advanced chronom- eter in existence for the next fifty or sixty centuries). The costume covers
his head, but leaves the face open, and there’s a little silver wing on either side of his head. Across his eyes he wears his Chronogoggles, big goggles with dark blue lenses that have a vertical arc of electricity slowly zapping back and forth across them. On his back he wears a slim pack of some kind that attaches at the shoulders and waist.
69
CAPTAIN CHRONOS FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Captain Chronos if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Captain Chronos is a strange super- human with time travel and time- manipulation powers. Sometimes he acts like a hero, some- times a villain, and sometimes he does things that are just plain weird.
K/R: Captain Chronos claims to be from
the future, and to
be acting to prevent some sort of Earth- shattering disaster that will occur if he doesn’t “correct” the timeline. There’s no proof of this, though; he could just be a nut.
-2: Captain Chronos goes out of his way to avoid killing or seri- ously harming anyone.
-6: If someone else teleports Captain Chronos or moves him through time, he suffers intense pain due to “feedback” from his own devices/ powers.
-8: Due to the temporal acceleration that swirls around him, Captain Chronos is affected by Drains more strongly than most people.
-10: His Secret Identity is Tempus Carlson; he’s a physics professor at Millen- nium City University.
47 Chronogoggles: Precognitive and Retrocognitive Clairsentience (Sight and Hearing Groups) 0 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2), Precognition/Retrocognition Only (-1)
17 The Best Omnichronometer Ever Made: Detect Time 25- (no Sense Group), Discriminatory, Analyze 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
6 The Best Omnichronometer Ever Made: HRRP
(Radio Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2), Affected As Sight And Hearing Groups As
Well As Radio Group (-1⁄2)
Talents
3 Timesense: Absolute Time Sense
21 Chronogoggles: Danger Sense (immediate vicinity, out
of combat, Sense) 18-
OIF (-1⁄2)
3 Fast Math: Lightning Calculator
20 Split-Second Time Shift: Lightning Reflexes: +20 DEX to act first with All Actions
8 Fast Reading: Speed Reading (x1000)
13 Linguistic Training: Universal Translator 13-
Earth Languages Only (-1⁄2)
Skills
25 +5 with Temporal Manipulation Powers
3 Combat Piloting 13-
3 Computer Programming 13-
15 Cramming (x3)
3 Electronics 13-
15 KS: Earth Culture 1970-2020 25- 10 KS: History 20-
3 KS: The Superhuman World 13- 3 PS: Watchmaker 13-
3 SS: Physics 13-
3 SS: Dimensional Physics 13-
8 SS: Temporal Physics 18-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Systems Operation 13-
3 Teamwork 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 545
Total Cost: 725
400 Matching Complications (75)
15 Distinctive Features: discomfitting “aura” (Not Conceal- able; Noticed And Recognizable)
25 Hunted: the Time Elemental Entropus (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture/Kill)
20 Hunted: Dr. Destroyer (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture/Kill)
20 Psychological Complication: Must Save Reality/Hunting Mechanon (see text; Common, Total)
20 Psychological Complication: Code Versus Killing (Common, Total)
10 Psychological Complication: Scientific Curiosity (Common, Moderate)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Prof. Tempus Carlson) (Frequently, Major)
15 Susceptibility: to being Teleported or moved through time by someone else, takes 3d6 damage instantly (Uncommon)
20 Vulnerability: 2 x Effect from Drains (Common) Total Complications Points: 75
Experience Points: 325

