CaTeRaN
Roll Notes
Lift 25 tons; 10d6 HTH damage [5]
Martial Arts: Wrestling
Maneuver OCV DCV Damage/Effect
15 9 OCV 30
14- 14-
4 Reversal -1 -2
9 DCV 30 3 OMCV 0 7 DMCV 12
3 Slam
3 Take Down
+0 +1 +2 +1
7 SPD 20 PD
50
25
14 Tough Skin: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 14 PD/14 ED 0 16 Mutant Physiology: Regeneration (2 BODY per Hour) 0 10 Strong-Willed: Mental Defense (14 points) 0 5 Mutant Physiology: Power Defense (5 points) 0 5 Immortal: Life Support (Longevity: Immortality) 0 10 Swift-Limbed: Running +10m (22m total) 1 8 Strong Leaper: Leaping +16m (20m forward, 10m
upward) 1 2 Strong Swimmer: Swimming +4m (8m total) 1
Perks
30 Well-Connected and 27 points’ worth of Contacts of a picturesque and intriguing nature (various, all over the world, to be defined by the GM)
1 Fringe Benefit: International Driver’s License 2 Fringe Benefit: Passport
10 Money: Wealthy
Talents
15 Combat Sense 14- 3 Lightsleep
Skills
32 +4 HTH
3 Acting 14-
3 Animal Handler (Bovines, Equines) 14- 3 Charm 14-
3 Climbing 14-
3 Disguise 14-
2 Gambling (Card Games) 14-
3 High Society 14-
2 KS: World History 11-
2 Lifespan Of Centuries: +4 to KS: World History; Only For Events Since 1650 (-1)
20 ED
20 REC
80 END
25 BODY 15
70 STUN
Movement: Running: Leaping:
22m 20m 8m
Swimming:
Cost Powers
END
0
40
32
30 17-
15
10 13-
PER Roll 14- PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 Total: 20 PD (14 rPD)
Total: 20 ED (14 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 368
18 18 16 12
19- 14-
4 Choke 4 Escape 3 Hold
-2 +0 +0 +0 -1 -1
Grab One Limb; 2d6 NND(2) 65 STR vs. Grabs
Grab Two Limbs, 60 STR for holding on
STR 65 to Escape; Grab 10d6 +v/10; Target Falls 10d6 Strike; You Fall, Target Falls
18 Claymore: HKA 2d6 (5d6+1 with STR) Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1),
No Knockback (-1⁄4), Real Weapon (-1⁄4)
12 Tireless: Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4) on 50 STR
(2 END) 0
CATERAN FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Cateran if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Cateran is a super-strong villainess who wields a claymore. She claims to be over 300 years old.
K/R: Cateran mostly commits robberies; despite the fact that she carries a greatsword she seems to prefer fisticuffs and to avoid killing.
-6: Cateran is a mutant.
-10: Her Secret Identity is Heather McGowrie; she was born in Scotland in 1644.

1 Language: Native) 1 Language: 3 Language: 1 Language: 1 Language: 1 Language: 1 Language: 1 Language:
Arabic (basic conversation; Gaelic is
Mandarin Chinese (basic conversation) English (completely fluent)
French (basic conversation) Portuguese (basic conversation) Russian (basic conversation)
Spanish (basic conversation)
Turkish (basic conversation) 3 Mimicry 14-
2 Navigation (Land) 14-
3 Oratory 14-
3 Persuasion 14- 3 Riding 14-
3 Stealth 14-
3 Streetwise 14-
3 Trading 14-
7 TF: Common Motorized Ground Vehicles, SCUBA,
Small Planes, Small Rowed Boats, Small Wind-
Powered Boats, Snow Skiing
7 WF: Common Melee Weapons, Common Missile
Weapons, Small Arms, Staffs
2 Weaponsmith (Muscle-Powered HTH) 14-
3 Traveler
1 1) AK: Africa 11-
1 2) AK: The British Isles 11- 1 3) AK: China 11-
1 4) AK: Europe 11-
1 5) AK: India 11-
1 6) AK: The Middle East 11-
1 7) AK: Russia 11-
2 8) AK: Scotland 14-
1 9) AK: The United States 11- 1 10) CK: Edinburgh 11-
1 11) CK: London 11-
1 12) CK: New York City 11-
1 13) CK: Paris 11-
1 14) CK: San Francisco 11- Total Powers & Skills Cost: 306 Total Cost: 674
400 Matching Complications (75)
10 Distinctive Features: Mutant (Not Concealable; Always Noticed; Detectable Only By Unusual Senses)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Honorable
(Common, Total)
10 Psychological Complication: Hates To Be
Confined, Restrained, Or Told What To Do
(Uncommon, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Heather
McGowrie) (Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 274
CATERAN
Background/History: Heather McGowrie
has never found a place or time she could truly call her own. Born in Scotland in 1644, she was a woman trapped in a man’s world. Though she grew up tall and lanky and strong — stronger than any of her brothers or their friends — she was forced into a woman’s lifestyle. Sewing and cooking and tending
to small children wasn’t what she wanted, though. She wanted to ride, and wield a sword, and fight, and have adventures! The only time she truly felt alive was when the old men were telling stories and tales and she could shut her eyes and feel as if she were taken away into another world.
When she got old enough that young
men were coming ’round to court her, she’d finally had as much as she was going to take. They were all so weak, soft-seeming, and close-minded that she just couldn’t stand
the thought of being with any of them. They weren’t truly men, they were boys playing
at it, and damned if she’d play along with them. Finally she stole a horse and rode away, thinking to ride to Edinburgh or London or some other city and make her fortune there.
She was stopped by a band of brigands and freebooters, or caterans as they were called then in the Highlands, before she’d ridden half a day. Her pretty horse, and pretty self, were rich prizes indeed for those men. But the pretty girl had fangs, as they found out when she broke the arms of two of them and crushed the skull of another with a blow from her fist. Almost before they knew it, she’d convinced them to let her join them.
She enjoyed the life of a brigand — it offered her a freedom like nothing she’d expe- rienced before. She learned how to fight, ride, kill, and take what she wanted. Soon she led the brigands, and the “Men of the Heather” became a group to be reckoned with. More and more outlaws, hearing of her band’s exploits, came to join her. But it was too good to last. The lairds of the clans could no longer stand for her depredations and pillaging, and came against the Men with a small army of Highlanders. Seeing no reason to stay and die, Cateran took to her horse and left her men to their fate.
She spent the next few years roaming around Scotland and the British Isles savoring her freedom. It was during this time she discovered just how strong she was — why, she lifted the Stone of Dunleavy easily with but one hand, that had not been lifted by anyone at all in seventy-five years! The biggest, burliest men were no match for her in contests of strength. And she realized some- thing more — she didn’t seem to be growing old. Her face and form showed twenty years, but she’d been on this Earth twoscore or more.

That last thought scared her. Had she been cursed by the Devil somehow to walk the Earth forever like the Wandering Jew? Feeling her mortal soul was in peril, she rode to the nearest abbey and asked to be admitted. Seeing the trouble that lay upon her soul, the Mother Superior took her in as a lay sister.
The religious life lasted about a month for Heather. She soon found she couldn’t stand it. Every minute of the day and night was regi- mented, ordered, and regulated. What a waste! She quickly came around to thinking of her longevity not as a curse from the Devil, but as a gift — from God or from whom, she didn’t know, and she didn’t really care anymore. She just decided to make the best of it.
She spent the next two centuries wandering the world. She saw the glittering spires of London and visited the king’s court in the noble garb of a lady. She explored the Black Forest and wrestled bears in the Russian taiga. She watched Schliemann excavate Troy. In disguise, she crept into Mecca, and later explored the Ottoman Empire in the same guise. She learned how to sail, and traveled the length and breadth of the British Empire, from Africa to India to China. And then, at long last, she came to America.
The Twenties and Thirties found her in
New York City. Now here, she thought, here is
a country where people know how to live! No centuries-old traditions, no caste system, and rules that let just about everyone do anything
he — or she — wanted. She took to it like a fish to water. Whenever she needed money, a little bit of robbery or theft did the trick nicely.
Then came World War II. She’d avoided the First World War by staying in the Orient, but this time she wanted to get involved. She went back to Europe and, in disguise, joined a Scottish regi- ment. She acquitted herself nobly and well. When the war ended, she decided to return to America. This time she chose the West Coast.
She found San Francisco to her liking. There were a few of these “heroes” out there who some- times tried to keep her from robbing banks, but she never had much trouble with them — fancy clothes aren’t enough to overcome three hundred years of experience. She decided to join in their fun, and adopted the name “Cateran” for her brigandish exploits.
Since then, Cateran’s been a supervillainess, mostly in California, but drifting from time to time to other cities as suits her mood. Lately she’s been spending a lot of time in Millennium City; it has a new and vibrant air to it unlike anything she’s ever experienced before. She’s not as well known to the public as other, flashier, villains, but she’s having a fine time and doing well for herself, so she doesn’t mind one bit.


Personality/Motivation: Cateran is very much
a free spirit. Not only does she intensely dislike being confined, bound, or restrained in any way, she won’t take orders, do what people expect from “a lady,” or restrict her options at all if she can help it. She’s her own woman, and no one else’s. She’ll do as she pleases, and damn those who don’t like it. She enjoys her freebooting, high-living lifestyle and wouldn’t trade it for anything in the world.
Although this attitude has led her to a life of crime, at heart Cateran is an honorable, often rather peaceable, person. She doesn’t fight for no reason, doesn’t inflict needless pain, attacks from surprise only when there’s no other way to win
to freedom, and won’t go back on her word once she’s given it. Despite centuries of experience as a warrior, Cateran prefers not to fight, or to kill, if there are other options. Fighting’s stupid if you can grab the swag and run away, after all. And killing doesn’t usually do much but start feuds. Oh, she’s killed before, dozens or hundreds of times, in battle and out of it, but she’d just as soon not slash someone with her sword if a blow from her fist will knock him out of the fight.
Now over 350 years old, Cateran has developed a somewhat fatalistic view of life. People, places, ideas — they all grow old and pass away sooner
or later, all but her. For this reason she avoids becoming attached to people or to objects; she knows she’ll lose them eventually, and doesn’t want the pain of loss. As a result, she often comes across as world-weary, cynical, and coldly unsym- pathetic, even though for the most part she’s none of those things.
Cateran has an annoying habit of calling all men “lad” unless they’re noticeably elderly (e.g., old wizards with long white beards).
Quote: “You might want to be reconsidering that course of action, lad.”
Powers/Tactics: Cateran is a mutant with much greater than normal human strength, resil- ience, and reflexes. Had she lived millennia ago, she’d probably have come down to us in legend and folklore as some sort of goddess, but in today’s world she’s had to settle for the life of a supervillainess.
Cateran is a smart and cagy combatant with years of fighting experience. She won’t simply wade in and start slugging her foes unless that seems
to be the quickest way to end the fight. She’ll use her environment, Hold her Actions and react appropriately, and otherwise fight intelligently. Her high SPD gives her a real edge in many battles; she sometimes “plays possum” and fights like a typical slow “brick” (i.e., limits herself to SPD 4) until she can catch her foe off-guard with a Surprise Move.
Cateran carries a two-handed Scottish clay- more for use in battle if she need it, but she prefers “roughhousing” and fisticuffs more than cutting people to ribbons — she’s not a killer, she’s a freebooter. She’ll only draw the sword if someone


makes her angry, is resistant to her strength, or draws a weapon on her first. She doesn’t even bother to bring it along on a lot of missions.
In many ways, Cateran’s out of combat skills are more important than her strength. She’s been all over the world, speaks several languages, and knows how to do all kinds of things. She’s espe- cially adept at disguising herself; she’s lived half her life walking in “someone else’s shoes.”
Campaign Use: Cateran makes a good villain for plots involving robbery and theft. She’ll work as straight hired muscle if she must, but prefers to be her own boss as much as possible — and she’ll never work for someone who wants her to act dishonorably.
Cateran might serve well as a potential love interest for a male PC. The right influence could appeal to the romantic side of her personality and steer her away from crime and into a life of heroism and adventure.
If Cateran is too powerful for your campaign, reduce her SPD to 5 or 6, get rid of her Claymore, and reduce her DEX to 20. If she’s not powerful enough, increase her STR and defenses until she is.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Cateran’s worked with or encountered many different villains (and heroes!) over the course of her career. She gets along best with GRAB, a group she often allies herself with. Their attitudes toward crime mirror her own, and that Cheshire Cat is a pretty handsome fella. If GRAB ever wants to expand its ranks, Cateran would definitely be considered for membership.
On the opposite end of the spectrum, she considers most VIPER agents and villains to be pompous idiots or deluded fools. She’s stolen from VIPER several times and would gladly do so again. Snakes who try to stop her learn what it feels like to get hit with a greatsword.
Cateran doesn’t really think of herself as
“a mutant” and doesn’t pay much attention to Kinematik’s cause. She’s met the man a time or two and finds him dislikeable and arrogant. In her experience mutants (like other minorities) will eventually be accepted; it just takes time... and she has plenty of that.
Appearance: Cateran looks pretty good for a 350-year-old: red hair cut short so that it frames her face — the face of a beautiful 30 year-old woman — and a trim, muscular, well-built figure. But she’s also 6’4” tall, and thus rather imposing. She usually wears a sort of blousy white shirt cut to accentuate her figure, a kilt-like skirt of tartan (no sporran, though), and black boots. When she carries her claymore, it’s in a back sheath.
