CYBERMIND
Background/History: Ever since he can remember, Dan Simanowitz has been a whiz with computers. As a little kid, he’d sneak into his father’s office and play around with Dad’s computer, even though
he wasn’t supposed to — that just made it all the more fun. By the time he was 13, and his parents had finally bought him a computer of his own, he’d found out something amazing. He could make the computer work without even touching it! Somehow he could reach “inside” the machine with his mind, making it do whatever he wanted. He could rewrite the programs, change the images on the screen, make it run subroutines, and more... all without touching either the keyboard or the mouse. He could even turn machines on and off by mental control.
It wasn’t long before “DanMan” was one of the hottest hackers in cyberspace, penetrating secure computers with ease thanks to his cyberkinetic powers. But he was still young and inexperi- enced, and it wasn’t long before the FBI caught
up to him. Tried, arrested, and convicted, he was sentenced to a juvenile detention facility. That slowed him down a little; he had almost no access to computers there, though he could sometimes mess around with a secretary’s desktop machine if he got close enough to get a glimpse of it.
By the time he was 18, Dan had learned a few things from the other young criminals incar- cerated with him (including some other, more experienced, hackers). He hadn’t reformed at all, but he was determined not to get caught so easily next time — or, if he did things right, caught at all. Knowing his superpowers would be a selling point, he created the identity of Cybermind, superhacker supreme. Since then he’s become the bane of computer security personnel around the world. He’s young, powerful, successful, and having the time of his life.
Cybermind’s successful criminal career came to an abrupt halt in 2006 when he got just a little too ambitious. Through a combination of clever hacking, deduction, and dumb luck, he figured out that the superhero Defender, leader of the Cham- pions, is James Harmon IV. He launched a scheme to drive Defender insane and allow himself to take over Harmon Industries. When the Champions discovered what was happening and fought back, the cybernetic feedback from the Defender armor Cybermind was cyberkinetically controlling
badly injured him. He plunged into a coma that hasn’t lifted since, despite the efforts of numerous doctors. Today he’s one of the longest-term resi- dents of the medical facility at Stronghold, and for all anyone can tell may remain there for the rest of his life.

CYBERMIND FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Cybermind if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Cybermind is a supervillain who’s a cyberkinetic — he can manipulate computers and other machines with the power of his mind.
K/R: His real name
is Dan Simanowitz. Since 2006 he’s been imprisoned in the medical facility at Stronghold in a deep coma that resulted from cyberkinetic feedback he suffered during a failed attempt to destroy Defender.
-2: Cybermind isn’t a fighter; if confronted with force he’ll flee.
-4: Cybermind has
a serious case of “hacker’s ego” — he can’t stand insults to his computer skills or resist a challenge to break into a system.
-8: Cybermind is particularly suscep- tible to psionic powers.
-10: Cybermind knows Defender’s secret identity


Personality/Motivation: Now in his late thirties, Cybermind is still pretty much a kid. Even in juvie, he never had to do too much growing up, take much responsibility for himself, or learn to respect others. His way of thinking is, if I can get away with taking something, the owner didn’t deserve it anyway. Penetrating computer security is a big game to him, a test of his powers and a way to earn “bragging rights” in the hacker commu- nity. Any suggestion that he can’t crack a partic- ular computer system is likely to make him all the more determined to try, and to succeed.
Quote: “Keyboard? I don’ need no steenkin’ keyboard, senyor.”
Powers/Tactics: Cybermind is a cyberkinetic, a person who can operate machines with his mind. He can interface with computers and similar technology, taking control of them, and some- times even displaying false images on them or
the like. His Computer Programming and Systems Operation Skills are reflections of his powers more than legitimate skills; he’s never formally studied computer science, engineering, or anything
else. For such an accomplished hacker, he often displays an odd ignorance of common hacker terms, practices, and equipment.
Cybermind isn’t really a combatant; he doesn’t like to fight, and would never even think about killing or hurting someone else. In dangerous situ- ations, he’ll probably break and run unless he has a way to fight back — and sometimes even then. He’s in it for the money and thrills, not the chance to get beaten up by some superhero. The only time he’s likely to be of any use in a fight is in high-tech environments where he can use his cyberkinetic powers to take control of weapons and security systems. In the right circumstances, or against the right types of heroes (like gadgeteers, powered armor wearers, or robots), he can be an effective opponent.
Cybermind is fairly fast physically, but mentally he can act much more quickly. In game terms, he has +3 SPD with his cyberkinetic powers. He gets Phases on Segments 2, 4, and 7 on which he can only use his cyberkinetic powers. (See Menton’s description in CV1 for information on how this works.)
Campaign Use: Depending on the nature of your PC group, Cybermind could be the focus of a major story arc (as computer-oriented heroes pursue him through cyberspace, or the team tries to prevent him from conducting some sort of high-tech robbery) — or he could just be a henchvillain hired by a master supercriminal
to help with some plot. In the hands of the likes of Dr. Destroyer or Binder, Cybermind could become a major threat to humanity. He could penetrate military computers to steal secrets, take over missile launch systems, and casually wreck jetliners by interfering with air traffic control equipment.


If you want to make Cybermind more powerful, or more combat-capable, you can expand his Mental Powers to affect the Human class of minds as well, or you could supply him with some weapons and gadgets. To make him less powerful, simply decrease the Active Points in his cyberkinetic powers.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Although Cybermind mostly kept to himself during his criminal career, he was known to work for other villains who could afford his services. He’s done jobs for the Ultimates, the Crimelords, Holo- caust, Utility, and VIPER, among others, and they consider him a reliable employee. On the other hand, he once attempted to double-cross King Cobra and get more money out of him for a job. He nearly paid for that mistake with his life, and if King Cobra has anything to say about it he still will, eventually.
Cybermind once accidentally penetrated some of Mechanon’s computer systems. As if an organic being able to mentally manipulate machines weren’t bad enough, now the impudent fleshling was invading its computer systems! Mechanon feels undying hatred for Cybermind and will kill him if it ever gets the chance.
Robotic or similar technological villains, like Automaton and Syzygy, generally hate and fear Cybermind because they fear his powers. If they get the chance to kill him, they will.
Defender remains very concerned about Cybermind. He knows the villain has learned his secret identity, and if he ever comes out of his coma that’s going to be a major problem for the Champions’ leader. Unfortunately there’s not much he can do about it at this point but worry.
Appearance: Cybermind wears a lightly-armored costume constructed to look like somewhat heavier armor, in red and purple: red breastplate, legs, gauntlets, belt, and helmet; purple stomach/ thighs, boots, arms, and backpack. The backpack has gold coils leading to his helmet and gauntlets, but that’s all for the sake of misdirection — a hero who thinks to disable him by taking away his “weapons” will quickly learn the backpack is just for carrying things. Cybermind’s powers often manifest with an accompanying light phenom- enon of dark-colored spots around his hands and/ or head.
In his civilian identity, Dan Simanowitz is 5’9” tall, with short brown hair, dark eyes, and the build of someone who exercises regularly.

CYBERMIND
Val Char Cost Roll Notes
10 STR 0 11- 15 DEX 10 12- 15 CON 5 12- 30 INT 20 15- 24 EGO 14 14- 15 PRE 5 12-
4 OCV 5
5 DCV 10
9 OMCV 18 8 DMCV 15 4 SPD 20
4 PD 2 6 ED 4 5 REC 1 30END 2 10 BODY 0 26 STUN 3
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 15- PRE Attack: 3d6
Phases: 3, 6, 9, 12 Total: 10 PD (6 rPD)
Total: 12 ED (6 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 134
12m
60 Machine Control: Mind Control 12d6 (Machine class of minds)
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Unified Power (-1⁄4)
60 Machine Images: Mental Illusions 12d6 (Machine class of minds)
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Unified Power (-1⁄4)
60 Machine Communications: Telepathy 12d6 (Machine class of minds)
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Unified Power (-1⁄4)
27 Machine Manipulation: Telekinesis (20 STR), Fine Manipulation
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Only To Control Machines And Machine Parts (-1), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
3
3
3
0
Skills
13 Computer Programming 20- 3 Electronics 15-
3 KS: Computer Games 15-
1 KS: The Superhuman World 8- 3 PS: Computer Gamer 15-
3 Systems Operation 15-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 277 Total Cost: 411
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: Mechanon (Frequently, Mo Pow, Kill)
20 Psychological Complication: Code Versus Killing
(Common, Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Hacker’s Ego; Can’t Resist
A Challenge To His Abilities (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Dan Simanowitz)
(Frequently, Major)
30 Vulnerability: 2 x Effect from Mental Powers (Very
Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 11
20 Speed Of Thought: +3 SPD 0 Only To Use Mental/Telekinetic Powers (-1⁄2)
12 Armored Costume: Resistant Protection (6 PD/6 ED) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
12 Wideband Senses: HRRP (Radio Group)
