Val Char Cost
10+20 STR
Roll Notes
3 Sensor Suite: Ultraviolet Perception (Sight Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
5 Sensor Suite: 360 Degree Perception (Sight Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2), Costs Endurance (-1⁄2)
2 Sensor Suite: Ultrasonic Perception (Hearing Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
7 Sensor Suite: Radar (Radio Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2), Costs Endurance (-1⁄2)
5 Sensor Suite: HRRP (Radio Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2), Affected As Sight And Hearing Group As
Well As Radio Group (-1⁄2), Costs Endurance (-1⁄2)
Perks
6 Contact: a fence 11- (extremely useful Skills and resources; significant Contacts of his own)
4 Deep Covers (2) 10 Money: Wealthy
Talents
2 Onboard Computer: Absolute Range Sense OIF (-1⁄2)
2 Onboard Computer: Absolute Time Sense OIF (-1⁄2)
2 Onboard Computer: Bump Of Direction OIF (-1⁄2)
2 Onboard Computer: Lightning Calculator OIF (-1⁄2)
Skills
6 +2 with Battle Armor Weapons Suite Multipower
3 Acrobatics 13-
3 Breakfall 13-
3 Charm 13-
3 Climbing 13-
1 Computer Programming 8- 3 Conversation 13-
4 Gambling (Card Games, Dice Games) 13- 3 High Society 13-
2 CK: Madrid 11-
2 CK: Moscow 11-
2 CK: New York City 11-
2 CK: Paris 11-
2 Language: French (fluent conversation; English is Native) 1 Language: Russian (basic conversation)
2 Language: Spanish (fluent conversation)
3 Lockpicking 13-
3 Persuasion 13-
3 PS: Appraising 13-
3 Security Systems 13-
5 Stealth 14-
3 Streetwise 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 327
Total Cost: 477
20 DEX 18 CON 18 INT 12 EGO 20 PRE
20 8 8 2 10
OCV: 7/DCV: 7
PER Roll 13- MCV: 4
PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 30 PD (25 rPD)
Total: 30 ED (25 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 150
7 OCV 20 7 DCV 20
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
5 SPD 5 PD
30
3
5 ED
6 REC 2
35END 3 10 BODY 0
Cost Powers
END
DEVASTATOR
3
13*
13- 13- 13- 11- 13-
11- (15-)Lift 1200 kg (6.4 tons); 2d6 (8d6) HTH damage [1 (3)]
30 STUN
Movement: Running: 18m
5
Flight: 30m
*: OIF (powered armor, -1⁄2)
43 Battle Armor Power System: Endurance Reserve
(200 END, 21 REC) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
67 Battle Armor Weapons Suite: Multipower, 100-point reserve
All OIF (-1⁄2)
7f 1) Configurable Blaster: Blast 10d6 var
Variable Advantages (+1⁄2 Advantages; +1); OIF (-1⁄2)
6f 2) Weapons Suite: RKA 3d6 var
Variable Advantages (+1⁄2 Advantages; +1); OIF (-1⁄2)
4f 3) Tangleweb Projector: Entangle 6d6, 6 PD/6 ED 6
OIF (-1⁄2)
50 Battle Armor: Resistant Protection (25 PD/25 ED) 0
OIF (-1⁄2)
3 Flashbang Protection: Sight Group Flash Defense
(5 points) 0
OIF (-1⁄2)
3 Flashbang Protection: Hearing Group Flash Defense
(5 points) 0
OIF (-1⁄2)
5 Internal Air Supply: Life Support (Self-Contained
Breathing) 1
OIF (-1⁄2), Costs Endurance (-1⁄2)
20 Jetpack: Flight 30m 3
OIF (-1⁄2)
4 Leg Servos: Running +6m (18m total) 1
OIF (-1⁄2)
3 Sensor Suite: Infrared Perception (Sight Group) 0
OIF (-1⁄2)

400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Hunted: the Warlord (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture/Kill)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Psychological Complication: Greedy (Very
Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Refuses To Back
Down Or Be Bullied (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Richard
Wittgenstein) (Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 77

DEVASTATOR
Background/History: It was the opportunity of a lifetime.
Richard Wittgenstein was a cat burglar — and a good one, too. He might not have been at the absolute pinnacle of his profession, but he’d rarely failed to complete a job, and had gotten rich in the process.
One day, after a casually overhearing some interesting gossip at a high-society party about a new yacht in the harbor at Monaco, he flew down to take a look. There it was — big as life and twice as gaudy. It practically screamed “new money,” and in Wittgenstein’s experience that usually meant good pickings.
One night, when the owner of the yacht (a man Wittgenstein had only glimpsed once or twice while casing the boat) and his entourage were at the casino, Wittgenstein slipped aboard. The security systems almost foiled him; they were extremely well-made. But that only convinced him there would be things he wanted on the boat.
When he finally found what the yacht’s owner was so careful to hide, he nearly threw it in the sea. Blueprints! Not jewels, not bearer bonds, not cash, just some stinking blueprints. But rather than call the night a total loss, Wittgenstein took them, thinking he could at least sell them back to the man he’d stolen them from.
But he quickly changed his mind when he
got home and took a careful look at them. These weren’t plans for a building or a car — they were for a weapon. Some sort of prototype suit of powered armor. They reminded him of something he’d seen somewhere, in the news probably, but he couldn’t place it. It didn’t come to him until the next day.
They were plans for the Warlord’s battle-armor.
Terrified for the first time in his life, Wittgen- stein took the plans, his gear, everything else he could lay his hands on quickly, and fled. He knew the Warlord would be looking for him now, and he knew that if the Warlord found him, he’d be a long, long time in dying.
While he was hiding, carefully concealed by one of the cover identities he’d established long ago, Wittgenstein looked over the plans some more and did some research. It turned out they
weren’t for the Warlord’s armor, but for a similar suit — one based on his, maybe intended for some of his best soldiers or something. The suit was sleeker and less well-armed than the Warlord’s was said to be, but it was still quite powerful.
At first Wittgenstein figured he’d sell the plans through his usual fence; he knew they’d fetch a high price on the international black market for arms. But the more he thought about it, the more he said to himself: Why shouldn’t I build the suit for myself? He realized he was sick of sneaking around all the time, preying on people too stupid to protect their valuables. It was time to take whatever he wanted — regardless of who tried to stop him.
It took most of his savings, and dealing with a lot of disreputable people he didn’t really like, but eventually Wittgenstein got his powered armor suit. Christening himself Devastator, he embarked on a career of robbery and mayhem that has lasted to this day.
Personality/Motivation: Devastator is using his battlesuit, and the power it brings, to work out a lot of frustration and anger that he’s accumulated over the years. He no longer has to skulk about
in the shadows, run from the police, or watch over his shoulder for bounty hunters and angry husbands. Now he can go toe-to-toe with super- heroes and smash them into the dirt, or take what he wants from even the most heavily-guarded vaults. He rarely backs down or runs away from any threat, and anyone who tries to bully him is in for trouble.
Quote: “You can forget about the posturing, hero. I want those gems, and if I have to go through you to get them, I will.”

DEVASTATOR FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Devastator if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Devastator is a powered armor- wearing supervil- lain. His main weapons include a configurable blaster and a tangleweb projector.
K/R: Devastator specializes in robberies, ranging from smash-and- grabs to more sophisticated jobs.
-4: The nature of some of Devasta- tor’s robberies suggest that he may have training as a professional thief.
-6: Devastator’s powered armor
is similar to the Warlord’s in many respects; he may have some connec- tion to the Warlord’s organization.
-10: His Secret Identity is Richard Wittgenstein; before becoming a supervillain he was a successful cat burglar.

Powers/Tactics: Devastator’s powers and abili- ties derive from two sources. The first is his battle armor, which was built from plans developed
by the Warlord for a lesser suit of armor based on his own. Besides fairly standard powered armor defensive systems, it comes equipped with a configurable blaster on the right arm, a suite
of other weapons attached to other parts of the armor, and a tangleweb projector on the right shoulder.
The second is his former career as a cat burglar. Few armored supervillains have the acrobatic prowess or infiltration skills of a professional thief, but Devastator does. Sometimes they allow him to take a low-key or sneaky approach to a problem where someone like Armadillo or Ankylosaur would simply have to smash things.
Devastator prefers to open with an all-out offense, using whatever weapon he thinks is most likely to hurt his opponent. The various weapons are simulated with Variable Advantage Advantage on the two main slots of his Multipower. If that doesn’t work, he’ll try tangleweb, Surprise Moves, or the like. He’ll only flee from combat if he thinks there’s too great a chance he’ll be defeated and lose his suit.
Campaign Use: Devastator is a basic powered armor villain, one you can easily use as a template for similar villains just by changing the armor’s weapons around. Beyond that, his Skills are an unusual twist you can exploit for many effects and plot points.
To make Devastator more powerful, give him more Multipower slots, increase his STR to 40
or more, and up his DEX a few points. To scale him down, reduce the Multipower to 75 Active Points and replace the Variable Advantage slots with three to five Blast and RKA slots with specific Advantages.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: The one thing that really scares Devastator is the Warlord. He knows that master villain realizes where he got his armor... and that the Warlord wants it back. He’s had a few scrapes with the War Machine
(the Warlord’s personal group of supercriminals) and held his own, but he’d prefer to avoid further confrontation if he can. He doesn’t want to risk losing the power he now has.
Devastator prefers to pull jobs on his own, but he’s willing to team up with other villains in the right circumstances. He’s worked with Merc-Force 1 (see CV2) on several occasions, for example.
Appearance: Devastator wears a suit of armor that clearly derives from the Warlord’s technology. It has the same rough configuration, with weaponry mounted on the arms and shoulders, and the user’s head and upper body protected by a dome- like structure instead of a more ordinary helmet. However, the “dome” is much more slender and cylindrical, and the weaponry more limited. A suite of configurable blaster components (barrels and focusing lenses that rotate into position) on his right arm is matched by a similar, but more



lethal, assemblage on his left. The suit is dull gold in color, a definite contrast to the Warlord’s shiny steel blue-white.
Out of his armor, Richard Wittgenstein is a handsome man in his early forties, six feet tall with carefully styled brown hair and an elegant moustache. He dresses in expensive, hand-tailored clothing at the height of fashion.

