Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
20 STR 20 DEX 20 CON 15 INT 15 EGO 20 PRE
10 10 10
5
5 10
13- 13- 13- 12- 12- 13-
Lift 400 kg; 4d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 Total: 19 PD (11 rPD)
Total: 19 ED (11 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 188
8 OCV 25 7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0
5 DMCV 6
6 SPD 40
8 PD 6 8 ED 6 8 REC 4 40END 4 15 BODY 5 44 STUN 12
Movement:
Cost Powers
Running: Leaping: Swimming:
18m 10m 6m
DOUBLE DEALER
16 Armored Costume: Resistant Protection (8 PD/8 ED) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
6 Strong Runner: Running +6m (18m total) 1 3 Strong Leaper: Leaping +6m (10m forward,
5m upward) 1 1 Strong Swimmer: Swimming +2m (6m total) 1
Perks
40 Tricked-Out Motorcycle: Vehicle built on 200 Total Points
Talents
6 Combat Luck (3 PD/3 ED)
Skills
30 +3 with All Combat
3 Acrobatics 13-
3 Analyze Style 12- 3 Breakfall 13-
3 Climbing 13-
2 Computer Programming 10-
3 Contortionist 13-
3 Combat Driving 13-
10 Defense Maneuver IV
10 Defensive Attack (see APG 38)
5 Fast Draw 14- (Common Melee Weapons)
2 Gambling (Card Games) 12-
2 KS: The Military/Mercenary/Terrorist World 11-
1 Language: Japanese (basic conversation; English is
Native)
3 Lockpicking 13-
10 Rapid Attack
3 Security Systems 12-
3 Shadowing 12-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Streetwise 13-
10 Two-Weapon Fighting
5 WF: Common Melee Weapons, Small Arms, Thrown Sword Total Powers & Skills Cost: 282
Total Cost: 470
400 Matching Complications (75)
10 Distinctive Features: Style (Not Concealable, Always Noticed And Recognizable, Detectable By Large Group)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: Interpol (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Psychological Complication: Greedy (Common, Total) 20 Psychological Complication: Casual Killer (Very
Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Randolph Exton)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 70
9 Twin Swords: Multipower, 19-point reserve All OAF (-1)
1f 1) Naked Blade: HKA 1d6 (2d6 with STR)
Armor Piercing (+1⁄4); OAF (-1), No Knockback (-1⁄4)
1f 2) Blade In Sheath: HA +3d6
OAF (-1), Hand-To-Hand Attack (-1⁄4)
5 Twin Swords: Another Sword (total of 2) 18 Magnetized Gloves: Telekinesis (30 STR)
IIF (-1⁄4), Limited Range (10m; -1⁄4); Only To Pull Ferrous Metal Objects To Him (-1)
Martial Arts: Double Swordplay Maneuver OCV DCV Notes
END
2 1
4
4 Counterstrike +2 4 Disarm -1
4 Parry +2
5 Plunging Strike -2
4 Slash +0
5 Thrust +1
3 Trip +1
+2 +1
+2 +1 +2 +3 +1
Weapon +4 DC Strike, Must Follow Block Disarm, 40 STR to Disarm roll
Block, Abort
Weapon +6 DC Strike Weapon +4 DC Strike Weapon +2 DC Strike 6d6 Strike; Target Falls
Notes
2d6 NND(1)
Dodge all attacks, Abort HKA 1d6+1 (21⁄2d6 with STR)
8d6 Strike
10d6 Strike
Martial Arts: Karate Maneuver OCV DCV
4 Atemi Strike -1 4 Dodge +0
+1 +5 +0
4 Punch/Snap Kick
5 Side/Spin Kick
8 +2 Extra DCs (already added in) 2 Use Art with Blades, Clubs

DOUBLE DEALER
Background/History: Randolph Exton grew up in Chicago. Although he was naturally bright and athletic, he wasn’t particularly motivated — his parents pushed him too hard, and he rebelled by being lazy. As a teenager he drifted in with a bad crowd and would’ve been thrown out of school except for the fact that he was a mainstay of both the football and basketball teams.
His grades weren’t good enough for any sort of decent college, so he joined the Army and ended up stationed in Japan. There he finally found something that caught his attention: making money, lots of money. He got involved in a ring of smugglers that stole military goods and sold them to VIPER, organized crime groups, and similar organizations. It was a sweet deal, but eventu-
ally the Army figured out what was going on. He escaped one step ahead of the MPs.
Bumming around Japan and hiding from the authorities, Exton one day found himself doing some chores for an old man to earn some money. It turned out the man was a master swordsman, a practitioner of the art of kenjutsu. He took a shine to Exton and began teaching him swordfighting. Exton discovered that he really enjoyed it... and that he was really good at it.
One day, not long after he’d bid the old man goodbye and hit the road again, Exton had an idea. He read about supervillains and super- mercenaries all the time in the paper, saw them on TV, heard about them on the radio. Why couldn’t he become one? He was already a pretty good swordfighter, that was a decent gimmick to start with, and he had some underworld connections. And those super-mercenaries, they must make a lot of money....
Energized by a real goal for the first time in his life, Exton got to work. He kept practicing with the sword, eventually developing a highly-effective fighting style using two short wakizashi-type blades. He designed himself a costume and chose the name Double Dealer because he could “deal death with both hands.” When he thought he was ready, he let his underworld contacts know there was a new super-mercenary on the market.
It turned out he wasn’t ready. His skills weren’t good enough yet. He completed his first few jobs, but barely, and he always got hurt and always barely avoided getting captured. He took the profits from that work and plowed it back into the business, paying people he met through his crim- inal connections to teach him their skills. A couple years later he wasn’t just a skilled swordfighter — he was a skilled cat burglar, good behind the wheel of a car, knew how to work with computers, and could follow someone without being noticed.
When Double Dealer began taking jobs again, things went much better. He completed jobs without a hitch or an injury, and usually the authorities never knew who hit them. Since then he’s built a strong reputation as a skilled, depend- able super-mercenary.
Personality/Motivation: Double Dealer is a mercenary in the purest sense of the word: he’s all about the money. If you’ve got the cash, he’ll do the job. If the payoff ’s big enough, he’ll do the job on spec. If you don’t pay him every penny you owe him, you’ve just made an enemy for life.
Despite his name, Double Dealer is actually very loyal to his employers, a quality that’s gotten him more than a few jobs during his super- criminal career. He takes pride in his reliability and professionalism as much as he does in his skills. If he has any liability as a mercenary, it’s his tendency to kill before he thinks. If a guard, a cop, or a superhero gets in his way, Double Dealer’s reaction often is to jump past “flee” or “moderate use of force” straight to “filet the bastard,” and that’s not always good for him or his employer.
Quote: “Sorry homes, but the boss wants that thing on the pedastal back there. You can get out of my way and let me leave with it, or I can ginsu you into little pieces and take it. Your choice.”
Powers/Tactics: Double Dealer is a highly-trained super-mercenary whose weapons of choice are two razor-sharp swords. The swords attach to their sheaths rather than just fitting into them (they release with a catch on the hilt), so he can keep the sheaths on and use them as clubs instead if lethal force isn’t called for. If he’s disarmed there are special magnets in his gloves that lets him “pull” them back into his hands from up to 10m away. (He can also use the gloves on any other ferrous metal objects, if necessary.)

DOUBLE DEALER FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Double Dealer if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Double Dealer is a costumed criminal/mercenary who wields two razor-sharp swords in combat.
K/R: Double Dealer doesn’t have any attacks that work at range, though he can throw a sword at someone if he has to.
-1: Besides being a trained swordsman, Double Dealer also knows karate.
-2: Double Dealer’s gloves are magne- tized so that he can “grab” his swords from a distance if he’s disarmed, or snatch a ferrous object he wants without having to get close to it.
-6: Double Dealer and Lazer are said to be good friends.
-10: His Secret Identity is Randolph Exton; he’s a former US Army soldier who deserted after it was discovered he was secretly working for a smug- gling ring selling military weapons to criminals.


Since he doesn’t have any Ranged attacks (other than throwing a sword, which is a despera- tion tactic), Double Dealer focuses on other melee combatants. If his foe is armed he’ll disarm them and then strike to disable or kill; if not he goes right for the jugular (so to speak). Even though he’s a mercenary he’s no fool; if he thinks he can’t win he’ll escape and try to fulfill his contract at another time when there are fewer costumed heroes or armed guards getting in his way.
Campaign Use: As a villain-for-hire, Double Dealer could show up just about anywhere in your campaign, working for nearly anyone — if the price is right he’ll do anything, from murder to theft to arson.
To make Double Dealer tougher, give him
a pair of pistols so he can also attack at range (note that his Defensive Attack, Rapid Attack, and Two-Weapon Fighting Skills already work with both HTH and Ranged attacks). If he’s too slow to compete with the melee superheroes in your campaign, consider giving him some Lightning Reflexes. To weaken him get rid of his Karate, and reduce his SPD to 5, DEX to 18, and OCV/DCV to 6.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Even though they sometimes compete for the same jobs, Double Dealer and Lazer have become
good friends over the years. When they’re in the same area they often meet for a beer or to pick
up women. The same cannot be said for Mechas- sassin and Steel Commando; Double Dealer hates both of them and expects bonus pay (“asshole surcharge”) if he has to work with them. He regards other super-mercenaries like Scimitar and Hazard neutrally, though he wouldn’t hesitate to remove them from the marketplace if he had the chance.
Appearance: Double Dealer is a black man 6’0” tall with an athletic build. His costume is a dark red bodystocking with black boots, belt, trunk, and gloves, and a sort of “double diamond” chest symbol drawn in white. His mask is a sort of high- tech take on a samurai’s uniform, and a high collar rises behind his head. He wears his two swords in sheaths on his back.

