Background/History: Rick Griswold used to be pretty much just another bargain-basement thug — tough, street-smart, willing to do just about anything for money. What set him apart was that he had a little more brains than most. He knew, he just knew, that if he kept his ears and eyes open and worked hard, an opportunity would come his way that would make his fortune.
He thought he’d gotten his big break when the supervillain Hornet hired him. Working for a villain was dangerous at times, but it meant a lot more money and you never knew what might


happen. Unfortunately for Rick, it turned out that Hornet wanted more than just some extra muscle and a lab assistant. He tricked Rick, sealed him into an experimental “Enthro-Mutation Chamber,” and threw the switch.
Agonizing pain, like nothing he’d ever felt, lanced through Rick. He doubled over in pain and fell to the floor of the chamber. He underwent such torture that he didn’t even realize he was changing — changing into a man-insect hybrid like Hornet himself!
Gratified to see that his experiment had worked, and certain that the genetic changes he’d inflicted on his minion would ensure his undying loyalty, Hornet confidently opened the door of the Chamber... only to have Rick attack him! The pain had been so great it had burned through
the “loyalty” part of the treatment, and now Rick wanted nothing so much as to kill Hornet with his bare hands. Battle ensued, totally trashing the lab; Hornet barely escaped with his life, and Rick fled just before the cops arrived.
Since he now had insectile eyes and wings, Rick knew he couldn’t go back to his ordinary life. Like it or not, the only thing left was to become
a supervillain. He chose the name Dragonfly and was soon making more money than ever before... though even ten times as much wouldn’t have been enough to compensate for what Hornet did to him.
For over half a decade Dragonfly worked
for himself, as part of impromptu villain teams, and as a villain-for-hire by master criminals.
He noticed his insect features becoming a little more pronounced, here and there, over time, but shrugged it off. In 1996 he was captured by the Liberty League, convicted of multiple violent crimes, and sentenced to life imprisonment in Stronghold.
During over ten years in prison, Dragonfly continued to mutate. For some reason the changes begin on the right side of his body, which is now more insect-like than human, and slowly work their way across his form. It’s reached the point where his mind is often affected; he doesn’t always know that he’s human. Stronghold’s doctors were unable to do anything to stop or slow down the changes. Dragonfly escaped during the 2009 breakout, so at this point getting him effective treatment is impossible; it won’t be much longer before he degenerates to the point where he loses his humanity entirely and becomes nothing but a monster.
Personality/Motivation: At present Dragonfly’s just this side of bestial; his human mind remains in control, though it slips occasionally. One day soon it’s likely to lose control for good. The only emotion that both his “personalities” share is a total hatred of Hornet and a desire to kill him as painfully as possible.
Quote: None. Dragonfly rarely speaks to anyone these days.

DRAGONFLY
89
Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
45 STR 20 DEX 28 CON 7 INT 14 EGO 20 PRE
35 20 18 -3
4 10
18- 13- 15- 10- 12- 13-
Lift 12.5 tons; 9d6 HTH damage [4]
PER Roll 10- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 15 PD (8 rPD)
Total: 15 ED (8 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 230
12m 40m
6 OCV 15
7 DCV 20
3 OMCV 0 7 DMCV 12
5 SPD 15 PD
30
13
15 ED
15 REC 11 55END 7 15 BODY 5 60 STUN 20
Movement: Running: Flight:
Cost Powers
END
Skills
16 +2 HTH
4 +2 OCV with Cutting
2 KS: Insects 11-
3 Stealth 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 170 Total Cost: 400
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 25 Hunted: FBI (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
25 Psychological Complication: Hates/Hunts Hornet (Very
Common, Total)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Rick Griswold)
(Frequently, Major)
20 Vulnerability: 2 x Effect from Chemicals/Poisons/Drugs
(Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0
13
25 Pincer: Multipower, 25-point reserve
2f 1) Cutting: HKA 11⁄2d6 (41⁄2d6 with STR) 2f 2) Grasping: +25 STR
Only To Grab (-1⁄2)
10 Hideous: +20 PRE
Only For Fear-/Intimidation-Based Presence Attacks (-1)
2 2
0
8 Chitinous Skin: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 8 PD/8 ED 0
9 Insectile Right Side: Resistant Protection (6 PD/6 ED) 0
Activation Roll 11- (-1)
40 Wings: Flight 40m 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Restrainable (-1⁄2) 5 Multifaceted Eyes: Infrared Perception (Sight Group) 10 Multifaceted Eyes: Increased Arc Of Perception (360
Degrees) for Sight Group
10 Wallcrawling: Clinging (normal STR)
Talents
24 Insect Senses: Danger Sense (self only, out of combat, Sense) 12-
0
0 0
DRAGONFLY FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Dragonfly if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Dragonfly is a monstrous supervillain, half-human, half-insect.
K/R: His real name is Rick Griswold; he escaped from Strong- hold during the 2009 breakout. He was “created” when the supervillain Hornet mutated him; he hates Hornet and wants to kill him.
-1: Dragonfly has continued to mutate since Hornet created him. He’s now as much monster as human (if not more),
and the day is coming when he’ll lose his humanity and be nothing but a bestial insect-man, driven by rage and instinct.
-8: Chemicals, drugs, and poisons are particularly effective attacks against Dragonfly.

Powers/Tactics: There was a time when Drag- onfly’s powers were more like Hornet’s — in particular, he used to have a “Sting Blast” ranged attack. As he’s continued to mutate, he lost that ability, but in the process became more hideous, strong, and tough. At this point he’s basically a low-powered brick with a few extra, quirky abili- ties. He no longer has the intelligence to fight with tactics or skill; he simply selects an opponent and smashes and cuts at him until he dies, then moves on to the next target.
Dragonfly’s bizzare human-insect physiology makes him particularly susceptible to the effects of chemicals, drugs, and the like. No one (not even him) knows this, though as he’s become more insect-like he’s developed a quasi-instinctual fear of such things.
Campaign Use: Aside from using Dragonfly as a villain-for-hire, the best plot hook he has is this: put Hornet somewhere near him, then see what happens. The resulting fight could cause all sorts of problems, depending on the circumstances.
To make Dragonfly tougher, give him more insect powers: a “Cocoon Projection” Entangle; a Sting Touch poison with various effects; the ability to summon swarms of insects. To weaken him, reduce his STR to 30-35, or remove his humanity altogether, making him nothing but an instinct- driven monster who still retains its hatred for Hornet.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Drag-
onfly hates Hornet with a passion that’s hard to describe. He’ll gladly kill him if he ever has the chance, and would do whatever it took to learn his whereabouts.
Appearance: There was a time, shortly after Hornet mutated him, when Dragonfly still looked mostly human. He had the compound eyes
of an insect, and some insectile facial features (including small antennae), and dragonfly-like wings projecting from his shoulderblades, but that was it.
Those days are long past. In the succeeding years Dragonfly began to mutate more and more, though for some reason the changes have occurred primarily on the right side of his body. His right half is now mostly insectile — his skin has become a thicker chitinous armor; his hand is now a sort of scorpion-like pincer; his right antenna is larger, longer, and heavy enough to droop; his right leg is more grasshopper-like than human. In short, his right half is hideously insectile. His left half still remains mostly human, though some changes can be seen there as well: the left antenna is larger, and he has only two fingers and a thumb on his left hand. Both his eyes remain compound, though they’re now larger and more bulging than before.
Prior to escaping from Stronghold in 2009, Dragonfly wore a standard Stronghold orange jumpsuit, though on his right side his insectile form creates odd rips and bulges. He tried to go back to his old white-and-green costume, but it no longer fit. These days he’s still in the orange jump- suit, though it’s almost in tatters in places.

