ECLIPSE
Background/History: Kim Culhane grew up plagued with bad luck. Her high school years were particularly unkind, mostly because she spent them in a dismal boarding school. Something within her kept her apart from others — she’d spend hours watching people from the shadows, wishing she could be like them, but never talking to them. Eventually, to spite her parents, she ran away from school and joined the military.
When the initial screening process showed a particular abnormality in her DNA, the Army asked if she’d participate in several biological experiments. Its goal was to create someone powerful enough to take out rogue superhe- roes the military was usually powerless against. Intrigued and desperate for cash, Kim agreed.
Whether the procedures brought out some- thing in her DNA, or empowered something she’d wanted all her life, the Army succeeded in creating someone who could easily cripple most superhu- mans with just a touch. But the plan depended on her wanting to help her country, and that wasn’t uppermost in Kim’s mind. Overwhelmed by all the attention, she just wanted a vacation and time to think about things. Unwilling to let its new “asset” loose on her own, the Army locked her up. But her keepers didn’t realize her powers could affect normal people as well as superhumans, and it wasn’t long before she’d copied the appearance and skills of one of her captors, cleared out all records of her existence from the computer files, and walked out the front door.
Personality/Motivation: Eclipse (as Kim calls herself) is cursed, now more than ever. Her powers completely cut her off from human contact — while she can’t hurt anyone, touching a person immediately makes her transform into that person, and she only changes back into herself when she falls asleep or gets knocked unconscious. As a result she’s become more paranoid, bitter,
and alone than ever. She takes jobs as a mercenary supervillain both to earn money and to have some minimal social contact with other people. Some- times she takes over a person’s appearance and identity and keeps him captive so she can blend into his group of family and friends and feel like a “real person” for a while... but sooner or later she’s discovered and has to flee, usually focusing her rage into doing as much damage to the social unit as she can before she leaves.
Quote: “OK, it’s a deal. Whatever you say. Here, shake on it....”
Powers/Tactics: Eclipse has two basic powers. The first is to perceive and analyze life energy. This allows her to know who around her has superpowers, and the basic source of those powers (mutant, mutate, mystic, technological, and so on). It also tells her whether a person has a strong, healthy life-force, since she’d rather not mimic weak or sickly people if she can avoid it.
ECLIPSE
Roll Notes
Perks
3 Anonymity
1 Money: Well Off
Skills
16 +2 HTH
3 Streetwise 12-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Shadowing 12-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 2,347 Total Cost: 2,483
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Accidental Change: whenever she touches another person skin-to-skin (Common, Always)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: FBI (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Paranoid (Very Common,
Strong)
10 Psychological Complication: Vengeful (Uncommon,
Strong)
10 Social Complication: Socially Inept (suffers -2 to Interac-
tion Skill Rolls) (Frequently, Minor) 10 Unluck: 2d6
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 2,083
10 STR 18 DEX 15 CON 13 INT 20 EGO 15 PRE
0 16 5 3 10 5
11- 13- 12- 12- 13- 12-
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 3d6
Phases: 3, 6, 9, 12 Total: 4 PD (0 rPD)
Total: 4 ED (0 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 136
12m
6 OCV 15 6 DCV 15 3 OMCV 0 7 DMCV 12
4 SPD 4 PD
20
2
4 ED
7 REC 3 30END 2 11 BODY 1
30 STUN
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
2
5
536 Mimic Powers: Variable Power Pool (Mimic Pool), 500 Pool + 250 Control Cost
Only For Multiform (Multiform is “alternate” form with all of character’s powers and exact copies
of target’s powers and power-related Complica- tions, and must have the Reversion Limitation; -1⁄2), Requires Successful HTH Attack Roll (-1⁄2), Skin Contact Required (-1), Power Fails To Work If Cannot Copy Entire Target (-1⁄4), Cannot Retain Copied Forms (when character switches to another “form,” she immediately loses all previously-copied powers; -1⁄4)
0
1,714 Steal Powers: Suppress Powers 40d6 0
Expanded Effect + Variable Effect (all Characteristics, powers, and abilities of all special effects simultane- ously; +6), Reduced Endurance (0 END, turns off when Reversion occurs or Eclipse changes victims; +1⁄2); Costs Endurance (to maintain; -0), No Range (-1⁄2), Linked (see text; -1⁄4)
43 Copy Appearance: Shape Shift (Sight, Hearing, Smell/ Taste, and Touch Groups, any humanoid shape), Imitation 0 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2), Trigger (when character mimics someone with her VPP, activating Trigger takes no time, Trigger immediately auto- matically resets; +1); Only To Copy Person Whose Power’s Being Mimicked (-1)
25 Detect Life-Force: Detect Life Energy 12- (no Sense Group), Discriminatory, Analyze, Range

The second power is a suite of two abilities. The first is a Mimic Variable Power Pool that
lets her copy the appearance, Skills, powers, and other abilities of a single individual. She can’t
copy more than one person at a time (even if
she has Pool points unspent). The change occurs automatically if she touches someone skin-to- skin, whether she wants it to or not (thus, a good tactic to use against her in combat is to force her into contact with a normal person). She can only copy natural or innate abilities (including some OIFs and Restrainable powers, such as implanted cyberware); Foci, objects of power, and the like are beyond her abilities to steal.
When Eclipse mimics someone’s powers,
she doesn’t just copy them — she steals them. When she uses her Power Pool she also activates a massive Suppress that affects all of the target’s powers, Skills, and other abilities, regardless of origin or special effect — in effect it reduces him to an ordinary, completely ignorant being of his species. (Ordinarily it’s illegal to Link a power
to an entire Framework, as is done here, but
since her VPP essentially represents one single power doing so shouldn’t cause any game balance problems.) Once she returns to her own shape (by being Knocked Out, for example) or steals another person’s abilities, the Suppress effect fades instantly and the first victim’s abilities return to him in full.
Eclipse dislikes open combat unless and until she has some tactically effective abilities. She prefers to ambush a powerful superhero whose skin she can touch, steal his powers, and then start fighting. She’s quick to flee if things aren’t going her way.
Campaign Use: Eclipse makes a good subversive villainess, particularly within a crowd or group where she can blend in without arousing suspi- cion. Since she can copy literally anyone by touch, and since she gains the Skills of her victims as well, she makes a perfect spy. In addition, her powers could give rise to all sorts of plots relating to mistaken identities, heroes who have to cope with powerlessness, and the like.
If Eclipse isn’t powerful enough for your campaign, give her some extra Skills to carry along in all of her forms (such as Martial Arts) and increase her Characteristics (primarily DEX, CON, SPD, and REC). If she’s too tough, lower her Suppress so that it weakens heroes but doesn’t totally remove their powers.
Eclipse has a strong vengeful streak, so she’s likely to Hunt anyone who humiliates or harms her. Unless she’s equipped with stolen powers (in which case she uses them to best effect), the threat she poses as a Hunter is limited by her need to get close enough to the target to touch his skin.




Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Eclipse deliberately holds herself apart from other people, even her employers, so she has little in the way of relationship among her peers. The supervillain Eclipse of the Crowns of Krim (see CV2) objects to her “taking” his name, and has threatened to teach her a lesson, but he’s waiting for the right opportunity and the help of his teammates.
Appearance: Eclipse usually covers herself up with lots of clothing to prevent accidental contact with other people, so to keep from looking out of place prefers to live in the colder regions of the world. Beneath all those clothes she wears a plain body- stocking that’s white on the right half and black on the left, with the blackness curving slightly to the right as if it were a moon eclipsing the sun. She has red hair and green eyes.

ECLIPSE FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Eclipse if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Eclipse is a supervillainess
who has the ability to mimic other peoples’ shapes and powers by touching them.
K/R: Eclipse doesn’t just mimic powers, Skills, and abilities — she steals them, leaving her victims as blank slates until she adopts some other form.
-1: Eclipse can only assume one person’s form/abili- ties at a time.
-6: Eclipse’s abilities work automati-
cally through skin contact, so she can sometimes be forced to steal another person’s form/abili- ties by involuntarily touching them.
-8: Her real name is Kim Culhane; she got her powers as the result of a strange US Army experiment.

