Background/History: Reggie Green was the proverbial three-time loser. He had visions of becoming a big-time thief, but somehow his dreams never squared with reality and the cops kept catching him. After his third conviction
he figured they’d throw away the key... but an overcrowded prison system paroled him after just a few years.
Reggie found himself in a bar that night, supposedly celebrating but really brooding over his life. Why did other guys get all the breaks? Why was he always the one who never had anything go right for him? Why wasn’t he sitting fat and pretty the way he deserved to?
The more he drank, the blacker his mood became. When that funny-looking guy acciden- tally jostled him while trying to get a drink, that was all the excuse Reggie needed to start a fight. But it turned out the guy had friends. Almost before he knew what he was doing, as if he were watching someone else do it, he pulled out the cheap pistol he’d bought on the street earlier that day and shot all four of them.
He stood there stunned as the echoes of
the gunshots died away, not fully compre- hending what he’d just done. He watched as the blood slowly trickled across the floor. Only the approaching sound of police sirens shook him out of his reverie.
He tried to run, but with all the liquor he had in him it was a losing effort. The police were closing in fast, so he waved the gun at them to try to scare them away. That turned out to be his last mistake — a second later half a dozen police

bullets ripped through him and he fell to the ground, dead.
But there was no tunnel of light, none of that crap he’d heard about all his life. He found himself standing in some sort of dark place, a meadow or field or forest or something (what did he know; he’d never been outside the city in his life). Despite the darkness, he saw someone approaching. He looked like a grey-bearded old man wearing a black robe and cloak.
“Who the hell are you?” Reggie asked.
“That does not matter,” the man answered in a voice that was barely above a whisper but instantly commanded Reggie’s full attention. “What is important is that I require a servant on Earth,
one who will spread chaos and destruction, one through whom the Unraveling will manifest in all its glory. It is a long road, and hard, but will you walk it?”
“You mean, instead of stay in this crap-hole? Sign me up, pops.”
The police were never able to explain why they never found Reggie Green’s body. They saw the shots hit him, they saw him stagger and fall into the shadow of the Whitaker Building. But when they ran up to where he fell, there was no body... just a few large spatterings of blood.
Soon thereafter a new supervillain appeared on the scene — a skeletal-looking man garbed in grey who called himself Entropy. No one could predict where he would appear, or what he would do — but inevitably chaos, destruction, and death followed in his wake.
Personality/Motivation: Reggie Green’s person- ality is largely gone, submerged beneath that of the seemingly cosmic entity who now lives within and through him. He exists only to spread chaos and destruction, whether that’s by helping other supervillains, committing crimes on his own,
or launching schemes to kill millions. He feels neither compassion nor sympathy, and will snuff out a single human life or dozens with no more concern than an ordinary person gives to extin- guishing a candle.
Quote: “No one can resist the Unraveling; it is the nature of things. It has simply come early for you....”
Powers/Tactics: Entropy embodies the forces of chaos, death, and decay (or, more philosophically, radical change) from the “evil” perspective many humans have of them. He’s everything that’s bad about change, and nothing that’s beneficial. He destroys, he kills, he injects unnecessary random- ness into every process he can. His main tools for doing this are his Entropy Powers, which allow him to disintegrate things with a touch, blast his enemies with chaotic forces, and the like. Most intriguingly, he can create a “fluctuation field” around himself that Transforms anything or anyone that touches it into something else. He has no control over the end result; it might be something that’s better for the person or thing he touches, or it might be worse.

ENTROPY
Val Char Cost Roll Notes
20 STR 10 13- 23 DEX 26 14- 25 CON 15 14- 20 INT 10 13- 20 EGO 10 13- 35 PRE 25 16-
8 OCV 25 8 DCV 25 3 OMCV 0 7 DMCV 12
Lift 400 kg; 4d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack: 7d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 25 PD (25 rPD)
Total: 25 ED (25 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 260
5 SPD 25 PD
30
23
25 ED
9 REC 5 50END 6 15 BODY 5 40 STUN 10
23
Movement: Running: Teleportation:
Cost Powers
12m 40m
130 Entropy Powers: Multipower, 130-point reserve 13f 1) Disintegrating Touch: RKA 21⁄2d6
NND (defense is ED Resistant Protection defined as a force-field, or the like; +1), Does BODY (+1), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
6f 2) Chaos Blast I: Blast 12d6 6f 3) Chaos Blast II: RKA 4d6
54 Fluctuation Field: Severe Transform 3d6 (anything to
3 Concealment 13- 3 Cryptography 13- 9 Deduction 16-
3 Stealth 14-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 400 Total Cost: 660
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Hunted: Sentinels (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Psychological Complication: Casual Killer (Very
Common, Strong)
20 Psychological Complication: Exists To Further Disorder
And Chaos (Common, Total)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Reginald Green)
(Frequently, Major)
20 Susceptibility: takes 1d6 per Phase from being
Entangled or similarly confined (Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 260
anything, heals back normally) 5
Improved Results Group (anything; +1), Constant (+1⁄2), Area Of Effect (personal Surface — Damage Shield; +1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); No Conscious Control (controls activation of power but not the results; -1), No Range (-1⁄2)
25 Resilience: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 25 PD/25 ED 0
65 Chaos-Walking: Multipower, 65-point reserve
6f 1) Short-Range Walking: Teleportation 40m, x64
Noncombat 6 5f 2) Long-Range Walking: Teleportation 20m 5
MegaScale (1m = 1,000 km; +13⁄4)
40 Viewport Of Chaos: Clairsentience (Sight Group), 16x Range (1,600”) 4 20 Favor Of Chaos: Luck 4d6 0


Entropy usually avoids direct combat. He prefers to strike from surprise and then Teleport to safety, possibly returning to harass his foes again after they think he’s left for good. His ability to see people from miles away (Viewport Of Chaos) makes it easy to set up ambushes.
Due to his chaos nature, Entropy actually suffers pain if confined in an Entangle. Entangles are so orderly and restrictive that they’re contrary to his nature. This also applies if he’s confined in similar ways, but does not include Grabs.
Campaign Use: Entropy is a quasi-cosmic being who embodies one of the impersonal forces of the universe as viewed from a certain human perspec- tive. As such you can easily make him as strong
or as weak as you need him to be; his powers might even fluctuate depending on the beliefs and perspectives of the people he’s fighting. Making him more powerful usually means increasing either the DCs of his attacks or his SPD, but you could also give him more powers (see the Chaos And Entropy Powers section of Champions Powers for some examples). To weaken him get rid of his Fluctuation Field and reduce his defenses to 20.
Appearance: Entropy is 6’0” tall with an emaci- ated build. His face seems mostly skeletal, though it’s not clear if this is natural or just a mask. The cowl of his costume leaves his face exposed, and he usually keeps the hood on his hooded cape down as well. The rest of his costume is a tight grey bodystocking with black boots and a black belt decorated with skulls.

