ESPER
Background/History: For untold centuries, a swarm of tiny motes had traveled through space, seeking a new home. Resembling a cloud of energy, it was actually a living thing. Intelligent and malevolent, it journeyed from planet to planet, seeking a species suitable to serve as host bodies. When it found one, it took over someone’s mind, then began to breed, creating more motes that in turn entered and controlled other minds, until the entire planet was under its dominion. It stole whatever it wanted from that helpless world, ravaging it until too little was left to support its hosts. Then it departed, leaving its former puppets to starve and die.
It had been in space for long this time, much longer than ever before. Weak and desperate,
it finally found a proper home — a green and pleasant world its inhabitants called Earth. Descending through the atmosphere, the swarm picked out the best host it could quickly find:
a female, lonely, bitter, and angry for reasons the swarm could not comprehend. She lived by herself, far from anyone else.
The swarm entered her mind and began to assert its control. Suddenly, the woman fought back! Contact with the swarm had awakened her latent psychic powers, and in her panic she

struggled against the invaders. Weak after so long in space, the swarm was unable to establish total control. Instead, what it achieved was synthesis — a melding of itself and the woman’s strange body. No longer would it sail the solar winds over the course of millennia. Now it would conquer and rule this pitiful world, establishing its dominion over the miserable masses of humanity. And in time, perhaps it would reach for the stars once more....
In the years since then, Esper (a name the conjoined being chose for herself) has become
a well-known supercriminal. Her schemes
have ranged from the mundane to the world- threatening, though they’re usually of the latter sort and she often teams up with other villains to compensate for her own weaknesses (and because of the swarm’s subconscious, instinctual drive to “join others of our own kind”). In 2005 she was captured by the Alliance, a Denver superteam, and sentence to imprisonment in Stronghold. She remained there for four years, but escaped when Menton broke out in 2009. Since then she’s laid low, but the authorities have no doubt she’ll strike again soon.
Personality/Motivation: Esper’s thoughts and feelings are no longer entirely human. Her personality, a melding of the alien mind of the swarm and her own disturbed psyche, combines her longstanding dislike for other people (particu- larly men) and the swarm’s instinct for conquest and wealth. (She has a tendency, thought not
a universal one, to refer to herself in the plural because of this.) It’s possible someone could get through to her, and force her human personality to become more dominant, but that would take a lot of hard work.
Driven by the swarm’s preference for close contact with others, Esper has left behind her hermit’s life and returned to the cities, though she makes no effort to get to know anyone, or even
to talk to them (because her voice betrays who she is). As much as she hates humanity, she still somehow feels more comfortable around other people than by herself.
Quote: “Our powers are far beyond your compre- hension. But you need not understand them to fall before me.”
Powers/Tactics: The fusion of the powerful energy-based mind of the swarm, with Esper’s own latently psychic brain, has created a mentalist with a small, but powerful, suite of abilities: mental control of others, inflicting pain psychi- cally, and locating other minds. She can also generate a field of energy to protect herself from harm. Additionally, she has become tougher
and more impressive than she was as an ordi- nary human; her physical Characteristics and PRE reflect this. Her Skills are a mingling
of the remnants of the swarm’s knowledge,
and what she can dimly remember from her pre-superhuman life.

ESPER
Roll Notes
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Distinctive Features: alien voice (Not Concealable; Always Noticed, Causes Major Reaction [fear/disgust])
25 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 25 Hunted: NASA (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 10 Hunted: PSI (Frequently, Mo Pow, Watching)
15 Psychological Complication: Loathing For Humanity
(Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Lust For Wealth And Power
(Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Ruth Erickson)
(Frequently, Major)
15 Susceptibility: to telepathic conduct not initiated by her,
takes 2d6 per Turn (Uncommon)
20 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Chemicals/Gases/Poisons
15 STR 20 DEX 23 CON 23 INT 23 EGO 25 PRE
5 20 13 13 13 15
12- 13- 14- 14- 14- 14-
Lift 200 kg; 3d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 14- PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 18 PD (10 rPD)
Total: 20 ED (10 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 222
12m
7 OCV 20
7 DCV 20
8 OMCV 15
8 DMCV 15
5 SPD 8 PD
30
6
10 ED 10REC 6 45END 5 18 BODY 8
40 STUN
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
10
8
(Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 39
44 Psychic Assault: Mental Blast 5d6 (Human and Alien classes of mind)
Unified Power (-1⁄4)
44 Psychic Control: Mind Control 10d6 (Human and Alien
classes of mind)
Unified Power (-1⁄4)
44 Seeking: Mind Scan 10d6 (Human and Alien classes
of mind)
Unified Power (-1⁄4)
24 Force-Field: Resistant Protection (8 PD/8 ED)
4 Armored Costume: Resistant Protection (2 PD/2 ED)
OIF (-1⁄2)
20 Strange Mind: Mental Defense (20 points)
27 Unimind Manifestation: Duplication (creates one
200-point Duplicate; see text) Costs Endurance (-1⁄2)
Skills
2 AK: Milky Way Galaxy 11-
2 KS: Radical Feminism 11-
2 KS: The Superhuman World 11- 2 Navigation (Space) 13-
2 PS: Farming 11-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 217 Total Cost: 439
Appearance: Esper is
a beautiful woman with long blonde hair; she appears to be in her mid-20s. Her costume
is fairly simple — a light-colored short jacket over a short black skirt and black top, plus boots and a black choker. She doesn’t wear a mask, and her eyes glow when she uses her powers.
ESPER FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Esper if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Esper is a supervillainess with mental powers including psychic assault and mind control.
K/R: Her real name is Ruth Erickson; she used to be a farmer.
-1: Esper’s most unusual ability is the power to create a “psionic duplicate” of herself that has the same mental powers as she does.
-6: Esper suffers intense pain if subjected to any sort of telepathic conduct she doesn’t initiate herself.
-8: Esper seems unusually vulnerable to attacks based on gases, poisons, or similar chemicals.


Esper’s most unusual power is the ability to partly release the alien mind-force from her body and cause it to manifest as a separate being. This “Unimind Manifestation” is a 150-point character with normal human Characteristics (except for
12 STR, 23 INT, and 23 EGO) and Esper’s mental powers, force-field, and Mental Defense. The Manifestation resembles Esper, except that it’s got a shiny glow to it that clearly indicates it’s made of energy more than matter. Esper doesn’t create the Manifestation often, preferring to try other powers in most cases.
Unfortunately, not all the effects of the joining were beneficial. Esper’s voice sounds strange now, like a movie special effect, clearly marking her
as not entirely human. If other people initiate telepathic contact with her, it causes intense
pain. (The GM defines “telepathic contact,” but it includes most forms of Telepathy, Mind Link, and Mind Control with the Telepathic Advantage.)
Esper remains somewhat weak in certain respects, particularly END. She has to watch her END usage carefully, often spending Phases in combat to Recover. In time she should overcome this by decreasing the END cost of her main powers, or buying up her END and/or REC.
Campaign Use: Esper is a good villain for use
as a master criminal’s hireling or member of an impromptu team, but she also comes equipped with plenty of story hooks of her own. What exactly is the swarm, and where does it come from? Does she have the potential to “breed” more swarms and take over other people? What happens if she teams up with PSI and Psimon and his followers learn how to harness the swarm to augment their own powers?
Making Esper more powerful involves having her become more comfortable with the alien joining. As her body and mind become accus- tomed to it, she will manifest more, and stronger, powers — she’ll buy off her Susceptibility, increase the power of her three psionic abilities, and perhaps manifest even more mental powers. Her Unimind Manifestation will become stronger
to match. On the other hand, if you need her to be weaker, perhaps her body and mind start to reject the swarm, costing her some of her powers (particularly her Duplication).
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Although she hates humanity in general Esper oddly feels more comfortable around people due to her subconscious “swarming instinct.” As a result
she’s worked with a lot of other supervillains and villain teams. Ones that she remains on good terms with include Holocaust, PSI, the Ultimates (though not Slick, whom she loathes), Smoke and Mirrors, Ankylosaur, Hazard, Menagerie, Photon, and Pulsar. On the other hand she doesn’t like Sunburst, the Futurists, Blowtorch, Green Dragon, Lady Blue (“an idiotic goody two-shoes”), El Salto, Shrinker (the two of them simply do not get along... at all), and Zorran the Artificer.

