EVIL EYE
Background/History: The young punks who mugged Pat Shorey took her wallet and her watch, and then they had some fun. If the cop car hadn’t driven by with its window down, they might have taken her life. As it was, Pat had broken ribs and lost an eye. The police knew the gang and would have gladly put the Slashers behind bars for life, but first they had to catch them.
A week after she got out of the hospital, Pat received a small package in the mail. It had no return address. Inside, she found a note that read: I do not know your name, but I know your need. This will help you in many ways. Trust its power.
Beneath the note, wrapped in cotton, was a glass eye. It almost matched her real eye, but the glass carried an odd shimmer, the iris was a whirl- pool of blue and green, and the pupil — surely it was just a trick of the light, but a faint, cold glow seemed to shine from the back of the eye.
Pat argued with herself for a week, but in the end she put the eye in her empty socket. It fit
just fine, though it tingled oddly. Looking in the mirror, she saw it didn’t look that much like a real eye. Some gift, she thought. Of course, if it wasn’t for those Slashers, she wouldn’t be trying out funny glass eyes...
The odd, cold glow caught her sight again, and held it. Suddenly she looked over the city. She could still see her bathroom, but overlaid on it was the cityscape. She closed her real eye and then she saw just the city. Her viewpoint soared, moved like it had a mind of its own, dove down and through a tenement building. Inside, she saw the Slashers passing around a joint. And then the strange vision ended, but she knew exactly where that building stood.
Amazed at herself, Pat went there. By then,
all but two of the Slashers had left. They grinned when they saw her. “Play time,” one of them said as they walked toward her. Then they screamed as bolts of power erupted from the crystal eye, wrapped around them, lifted them into the air. The icy tendrils of force pulled back, still carrying the two punks, pulling them closer and closer
— and then they were gone. Pat still heard them screaming and shouting. Somehow it sounded both like they were inside her head and very far away. After about half an hour, the screaming stopped.
Pat felt very pleased with her new eye. Over
the next month, she found several more of the Slashers and disposed of them. Once, however,
the police showed up the same time she did. When they tried to stop her, the tendrils of power grabbed a policeman. Frantically, she willed the eye to let the policeman go — but the eye did not obey. The policeman disappeared just like the gang members. Pat tried pulling the crystal eye out of her head. It wouldn’t come. Sobbing, she ran from the scene while the remaining policemen issued an APB and a request for backup from any super- heroes the department could contact.

EVIL EYE
Val Char Cost Roll Notes
10 STR 0 11- 18 DEX 16 13- 15 CON 5 12-
10 INT 0 11-
11 EGO 1 11-
13 PRE 3 12-
5 OCV 10 5 DCV 10
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
5 SPD 30
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 11-
PRE Attack: 21⁄2d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 38 PD (30 rPD)
Total: 38 ED (30 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 95
12m
8 PD
8 ED
5 REC 1 30END 2 10 BODY 0
24 STUN
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
6 6
2
90 The Power Of The Evil Eye: Multipower, 90-point reserve
9f 1) Grasping Tendrils I: Telekinesis (60 STR) 9f 2) Grasping Tendrils II: Telekinesis (40 STR)
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
9f 3) Grasping Tendrils II: Telekinesis (30 STR)
Area Of Effect (8m; +1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
33 Drain Life Force: Drain STR and DEX 2d6
Expanded Effect (two Characteristics simultaneously; +1⁄2), Constant (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Linked (to Grasping Tendrils II; -1⁄2)
9 0
0 0
Skills
15 +5 with Power Of The Evil Eye Multipower
3 Interrogation 12-
2 KS: Missions From Archimago 11-
3 Shadowing 11-
3 Streetwise 12-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 510 Total Cost: 605
400 Matching Complications (75)
10 Distinctive Features: Shining, Supernatural Eye (Easily Concealed; Causes Major Reaction [Fear])
20 Hunted: Trismegistus Council (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Capture/Remove Powers)
20 Hunted: FBI (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture/Kill)
20 Psychological Complication: Eye Has A Mind Of Its Own
(Very Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Avoids Confrontation (Very
Common)
15 Psychological Complication: Seeks Magic Items And
Lorebooks (Common, Strong)
15 Susceptibility: to attempts at Mind Control, takes 3d6
damage per attempt Instantly (Uncommon) 15 Unluck: 3d6
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 205
65 Pull Into The Eye: Extra-Dimensional Movement (a single physical location in a single dimension [the
Eye Pocket Dimension]), x4 Increased Weight 0 Usable As Attack (defense is Extra-Dimensional Movement or other dimensional Powers; +11⁄4),
Ranged (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Only Works Against Targets Grabbed With Telekinesis (-1⁄2)
90 Protective Weave: Resistant Protection (30 PD/30 ED) 0 7 Eye Shield: Mental Defense (7 points) 0 7 Eye Shield: Power Defense (7 points) 0 90 Mystic Travel: Teleportation 60m 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
38 Locate Target: Detect Living Being And Physical Objects
11- (no Sense Group), Discriminatory, Range,
Targeting, Telescopic (+16 versus Range Modifier) 0
37 Mystic Sight: Spatial Awareness (no Sense Group), Range


Pat has been on the run ever since. Rather predictably, the media dubbed her “the Evil Eye.” She tried not to be a criminal, she even tried to turn herself in, but the eye seems to have a mind of its own. It won’t let her be captured. And once in a while, she finds herself stealing an ancient relic from a museum or committing some other senseless crime.
She found out who sent her the eye, at least. Once, she was drawn to steal a notebook from a rich collector’s vault. The handwriting in the note- book matched the note with the eye. It was the hand of the villainous master wizard Archimago, dead for more than 20 years.
Personality/Motivation: Evil Eye is scared and remorseful, but she doesn’t call the shots anymore. Sometimes she can stop the eye from swallowing a person, but she can’t stop herself from going on the eye’s enigmatic missions. Though she usually tries to live an otherwise law-abiding life, once in a while she uses the eye to steal food and other things she needs to live. She always hates herself afterwards.
Quote: “Please, go away! I don’t want it to get you too!”
Powers/Tactics: The magical eye that gives Evil Eye her powers can detect just about anything at considerable range. Sometimes, it lets her locate people or things she wants to find. More often, the eye simply shows her what it seeks. In combat, the eye shoots out pale, glowing tendrils of force that grab people or things and cause pain and weakness. If the tendrils pull a victim all the way to Pat, they fall through the eye into a hostile pocket universe. (The exact nature of this tiny realm is left for you to design as an exercise at eerie grotesquery. Make it as weird and horrible as you can imagine. Extra-Dimensional Movement to break into or out of the eye requires a Naviga- tion (Dimensional) roll at -5 because the pocket dimension in the eye is compressed into such a small space in the regular multiverse.)
Evil Eye doesn’t really want to hurt anyone
or send them into the eye, so she warns away policemen and superheroes. The eye, in contrast, tries grabbing everyone who isn’t an ally. If the
eye hasn’t sent Pat on a mission, she can usually limit it to holding opponents until they fall unconscious, or even bashing them around a little. Sometimes, however, the eye loses patience and sucks people in anyway. It does whatever it can
to keep Evil Eye from being captured, including grabbing innocent bystanders; when it does this, Evil Eye knows to warn heroes to let her go or the bystanders will suffer a terrible fate.

Campaign Use: The Evil Eye is a victim of the Mystic World. The eye forces Pat Shorey to travel around the Earth to seek out mystic artifacts, books of lore, and even people for the eye to suck into itself. Some mystics believe Evil Eye gathers materials for a plan Archimago set in motion before his death (see CU 65)... but it’s possible the eye is intelligent and has its own agenda.
To make Evil Eye a more formidable foe, give her a powerful Blast in addition to her other attacks. To make her less powerful, reduce her SPD and defenses, or remove the Drain from the Grasping Tendrils.
Pat would Hunt a character if the eye forced her to. That might mean Archimago foresaw that the character could threaten his plans.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Evil Eye has limited control over her own actions. She doesn’t want to be a villain or to associate with villains, but sometimes the eye forces her to. If it’s connected to the Zodiac Working (see CU 65) directly or indirectly, it may make her team up with Frag at some point, for example.
Appearance: Pat is 5’5” tall and weighs 130 pounds, with straight blonde hair cut shoulder length. She dresses in ordinary clothes, usually jeans and a blouse, with big sunglasses. Her left eye now shimmers with malign power. It shoots out crackling, lashing bolts of pale, blue-green lightning.

EVIL EYE FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Evil Eye if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: Evil Eye is a supervillainess whose left eye has strange mystic powers. It can grab people, drain their life force, and sometimes even makes them disappear forever.
K/R: Her real name is Patricia Shorey. She seems to be a reluctant supercriminal, often warning policemen and heroes to stay away from her so her eye doesn’t attack them. Possibly her “evil eye” controls her somehow.
-1: Evil Eye has committed crimes all over the world, mostly involving the theft of mystic objects and books, or the kidnapping and disappearance of members of the Mystic World.
-6: Evil Eye experiences intense pain if Mind Controlled.

