FENRIS
Background/History: As a young biologist working for a prominent zoological park, Fred- erick Rice became fascinated by the legend of the werewolf — the man who could transform himself into a beast. Even in their faux-natural cages,
the wolves at the zoo were majestic and proud, uncompromising in their savagery and love of life. What man wouldn’t want to share in such feelings?
With samples taken from the zoo’s wolves, Rice began to study human and wolf DNA, looking for similarities so he could create a “werewolf serum” that would allow a person to take on the shape of a wolf at will. He was convinced there had to be some factual basis for the werewolf legends, and after many long nights in the laboratory, he found it!
Data in hand, Rice manufactured the first batch of lycanthrope serum. Certain it would work, and unwilling to wait any longer, he injected himself, and then waited breathlessly for the transforma- tion to occur. Soon he felt it — he was changing! But unfortunately, it was not the sort of change
he thought would take place. Pain began to rip through his body as human flesh was altered by lupine DNA. He yelled in pain, and then the yell turned into a howl, but no one was around to hear him. Eventually he passed out.
He awakened to find his experiment a partial success. He had taken on some wolf character- istics. He was faster, stronger, and tougher, and his senses had become particularly acute. But his mind had changed as well. Lurking behind his facade of humanity was the Wolf, savage in its desire to hunt, to kill, to triumph. Only his strong will could keep the Wolf in check, and even then not forever.
Knowing he could no longer hold down a civilian job, Rice killed a security guard, dressed the corpse in his own clothes, and staged a labora- tory fire to fake his own death. Then he fashioned a set of metal claws and a wolf-like costume. Choosing the name Fenris after the unstoppable giant wolf of Norse mythology, he became a super- villain and mercenary, always eager for the next job so the Wolf could run free again.
Personality/Motivation: Frederick Rice’s once normal, if scientifically geeky, personality has been almost completely subsumed by what he calls
“the Wolf ” — the wolf-like nature he acquired
by mingling his DNA with that of lupines. He’s aggressive, cruel, eager for bloodshed and combat, full of the spirit of the wild.
Rice has actually become a little scared of the Wolf. He’s concerned it’s getting stronger, and that eventually he won’t have the capacity to control it at all. He’d like to find a way to regain more of his humanity — but he’s not as intelligent or skilled as he once was, so his research has yielded no solu- tion... yet.
Quote: “There’s a little bit of Wolf in all of us, you see. Unfortunately for you, there’s more in me.”
Powers/Tactics: Fenris’s powers result from the mingling of human and wolf biological material within his body. He’s faster, stronger, more savage, and tougher than an ordinary human. He has a wolf ’s senses, and can track other people by scent. When attacking, he uses metal claws which he built; they can inflict vicious wounds, particularly against unarmored foes. If his claws or punches don’t have any effect, he’ll switch to another opponent, or try to maneuver for a Surprise Move bonus.
Campaign Use: Fenris makes a good addition to villain teams that need some extra muscle; he prefers to work “with a pack.” As a solo, he can’t stand up to a hero team for very long.
Making Fenris more powerful typically means heightening his Wolf nature. He becomes more bestial, and that means stronger and faster. He might also grow claws of his own, ones superior to his manufactured claws, or gain the ability to summon and control wolves. To make him less powerful, reduce his SPD to 5, and cut down on his defenses.
Fenris is a predator, quite willing to Hunt heroes who somehow attract his attention (typi- cally by defeating him thoroughly). He Hunts with cunning and savagery, carefully stalking his prey with Stealth and then pouncing on him to rip and tear with his claws.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Some super- villains prefer not to work with Fenris because
of his tendency to kill, but the Wolf is a pack creature, ready and able to join with others to hunt greater prey. In the past he’s worked for or teamed up with Holocaust, Merc-Force 1, Black Fang (whom he in some ways idolizes), Black Paladin, Lash, Morningstar, Richochet, and Wildeye (whom he also strongly admires), among others. His association with Deathstroke ended the first time Frost made a snide remark about him and
he nearly killed the icy bastard; if he gets another chance he’ll gut Frost like a trout.
Appearance: Fenris wears a costume that makes him look like a man-wolf hybrid: a grey bodys- tocking with a wolf-fur chestpiece and a head- piece that looks like a wolf ’s head. The eyes of the headpiece are red.
Frederick Rice himself is in his late thirties, 6’1”, with green eyes and long brown hair. Usually he looks like an average guy, but at times the Wolf shows through.


FENRIS FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Fenris if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Fenris is a mercenary super- villain who seems
to be some sort of wolf-human hybrid; he wears sharp steel claws.
K/R: Fenris is vicious and cruel, with no compunctions what- soever about killing people.
-4: Fenris often becomes enraged when injured, making him particu- larly dangerous.
-6: Fenris seems
to have an innate “bond” with dogs, wolves, and other canines; he “makes friends” with them easily, and they usually won’t attack him.
-10: His Secret Identity is Frederick Rice; he used to be a zoo biologist.

FENRIS
Roll Notes
Cost Powers
17 Claws: HKA 1d6 (21⁄2d6 with STR)
Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2)
30 Resilience: Physical and Energy Damage Reduction, Resistant, 25%
16 Armored Costume: Resistant Protection (8 PD/8 ED) OIF (-1⁄2)
END
0
0 0
0 1
30 STR 25 DEX 23 CON 13 INT 12 EGO 20 PRE
20 30 13
3
2 10
15- 14- 14- 12- 11- 13-
Lift 1,600 kg; 6d6 HTH damage [3]
PER Roll 12- MCV: 4
PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 Total: 23 PD (11 rPD)
Total: 21 ED (11 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 227
24m 30m
9 OCV
8 DCV 25
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
40
6 SPD 12 PD
16 Rapid Healing: Regeneration (1 BODY/Turn)
12 Wolfen Muscles: Running +12m (24m total)
13 Wolfen Muscles: Leaping +26m (30m forward, 16m
10 8 11REC 7 45END 5 18 BODY 8 46 STUN 13
upward) 1 9 Heightened Senses: +3 PER with all Sense Groups 0 5 Nightsight: Nightvision 0 10 Tracking Scent: Tracking with Smell/Taste Group 0
Talents
6 Combat Luck (3 PD/3 ED)
15 Combat Sense 12-
1 Lightning Reflexes: +5 DEX to act first with Claws
Skills
8 +4 OCV with Claws 4 +2 DCV with Dodge
3 Acrobatics 14-
6 Animal Handler (Canines) 15-
3 Breakfall 14-
3 Climbing 14-
3 Contortionist 14-
10 Defense Maneuver IV
2 KS: The Superhuman World 11- 3 KS: Werewolf Legends 12-
3 KS: Wolves 12-
3 SS: Biology 12-
3 SS: Zoology 12-
3 Stealth 14-
2 Survival (Temperate) 12-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 209 Total Cost: 436
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Enraged: if takes BODY damage (Common), go 11-, recover 11-
20 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: Justice Squadron (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Casual Killer (Very
Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Wolf Nature (Common,
Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Frederick Rice)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 36

