FIREWING
Background/History: Far, far away on the other side of the Milky Way Galaxy from Earth lies the planet Malva. Civilization on Malva is ancient; when Humans were still living in caves the Malvans ruled half the Galaxy and traversed space in the fastest, most powerful starships ever seen. Ruling over all Malvans, and their conquests, was the Phazor, an absolute autocrat and scion of a great dynasty.
But no civilization lasts forever. As their power increased, so did the Malvans’ arrogance and decadence. In time they forgot about conquest and imperial ambition, gradually letting their empire slip away, planet by planet, as they found other amusements.
By Earth’s twentieth century, the most popular entertainment on Malva was gladiatorial combat. In the Phazor’s arenas, warriors from a thousand worlds came to pit their prowess against others, hoping to win the fat purses offered as prizes by the Phazor and the Malvan nobility. Greatest of all the gladiators were those who relied not on weapons, but on the simple strength of their arms and the other powers they possessed. Superpow- ered gladiatorial duels brought the Malvans to the arenas by the hundreds of thousands.
In recent years, of all the gladiators, ordinary and superpowered, three stood out as the most powerful and skilled of all: a Fassai named Tren Tarrec Dazeur, who was not only strong but gifted with metabolic leeching powers; a Dorvalan named Drogen Lar, whose “living iron” body and muscles made him the strongest of all the gladia- tors; and Ariax Thone, a Malvan who augmented his strength and agility with minor fire powers.
As a Malvan, Thone was by far the favorite of the crowds; his victories and elán made him one of the most popular people on all Malva. Though other gladiators had the power to offer a serious chal- lenge to any of these three, none of them lost often — except to each other.
But Thone had a secret: though he pretended to follow the high and ancient Malvan concepts of honor and glory, in truth he would do anything — anything — to win. On more than one occasion, he maintained his edge over his rivals by taking special drugs. With his special “enhancements,” Thone could withstand Dazeur’s and Lar’s powers better, and triumphed over them more often than not. Both suspected Thone of cheating, but neither could prove it.
Gradually, the games became bloodier and bloodier, something none of the three champions cared for. The Phazor wanted greater and greater spectacle, and he demanded that the gladiators provide it. Blood, in dozens of colors, soaked the sands more and more often.
Disgusted with what he had become, Drogen Lar found a way to steal a spacecraft and leave Malva forever. Dazeur left soon after. Thone was dismayed. When would he find other opponents so truly worthy of him? It would take years, even decades. Who could challenge him now?
He soon learned. Through means unknown
to Thone, the Phazor found out about the special drugs he used, and demanded that Thone provide him with them. Ever obedient to his Phazor, Thone did so — and the Phazor improved upon them, giving them to other gladiators so that they became more and more powerful, but their lives shorter and shorter as the drugs burned through their bodies. Now it was Thone’s turn to feel disgust; he rejected the drugs entirely, and soon was one of the weakest of the superpowered gladiators.
Despairing, Thone sought out the Wisdom Stones. For millennia, the bodies of the wisest Malvans were preserved in special calcified forma- tions, that they might communicate their learning and advice to Malvans still living through strange telepathic processes.
<<What can I do?>> Thone asked. <<There is no honor here, and I lack the power to fight and win!>>
<<The corruption of your soul has spread throughout the arena, Ariax Thone, so speak to us not of honor!>> the Stones replied. <<You seek power, power to triumph over your enemies, and nothing else. Your honor has ever fallen to the wayside in your pursuit of victory.>>
<<And what of it?>> Thone said hotly. <<Without victory, honor is a meaningless sop. I fight to win!>>
<<It was not always so,>> the Stones sighed. <<But you speak the truth of it in this late day. Very well, if it is power our people want, power they shall have. Walk into the Fire and be cleansed.>>
Thone hesitated. <<The... Fire? Surely you cannot mean....>>
<<Yes, Ariax Thone. The Furnace of the First Ones. You know the legend of the Firewing as well as we.>>
<<But... will I become a Firewing, then?>>
<<Who can say? We are not prophets — though if we were, we would say that you shall die, as all others who have sought to fulfill the legend have. But if you seek power, that is the only route to true power left on this corrupt and ancient world.>>
<<So be it,>> said Thone. <<Without victory in the arena, life lacks savor anyway.>>
Thone left the Wisdom Stones and traveled to the Grand Temple of Malva, one of the wonders of the Universe. Inside, in the very heart of the Temple, was the Furnace of the First Ones, a vast flame which some said was the life’s-flame of the Malvan people — when it died, so too would they. Legends also told of the Firewing, a man who enters the flame to emerge with great power, his impurities burned away.
Hoping his own fire powers would protect him, Thone climbed the steps and walked into the conflagration. Pain. Great pain. The pain of a thousand sins, a thousand imperfections, burning away in minutes. The pain of being forged into a living weapon the likes of which the Malvans had never seen.

Val Char Cost
40 STR 30 DEX 45 CON 20 INT 20 EGO 40 PRE
Roll
30
40 15-
Notes
Lift 6,400 kg; 8d6 HTH damage [4]
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack: 8d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 Total: 40 PD (20 rPD)
Total: 40 ED (20 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 410
12m 60m
11 OCV 40 10 DCV 35 3 OMCV 0
7 DMCV 7 SPD
12 50
20 PD
20 ED
25 REC 21 150 END 26 15 BODY 5 80 STUN 30
Movement: Running: Flight:
Cost Powers
END
FIREWING
112 Wall Of Fire: RKA 3d6 5 Area Of Effect (25m long, 4m high Line; +3⁄4),
Constant (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
124 Fiery Aura: RKA 3d6 0
Area Of Effect (personal Surface — Damage Shield; +1⁄4), Constant (+1⁄2), Penetrating (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
75 Fire Shield: Resistant Protection (20 PD/20 ED) 0 Hardened (+1⁄4)
70 Firewing Form: Damage Negation (-6 DCs Physical
and -8 DCs Energy) 0
37 Fiery Eyes: Sight Group Flash Defense (30 points), Hardened (+1⁄4) 0 35 Resilience: Life Support: Total 0
90 Firewing Flight: Multipower, 90-point reserve
9f 1) Fiery Flight: Flight 60m 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
3f 2) Hyperflight: FTL Travel (1 LY/day) 0
5 Fiery Eyes: Infrared Perception (Sight Group) 0
Skills
15 +3 with Fiery Attacks Multipower 24 +2 Overall
3 Language: English (completely fluent; Malvan is Native) 2 Navigation (Space) 13-
3 PS: Gladiator 15-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 844
Total Cost: 1,254
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Enraged: by treachery, betrayal, or unfair combat tactics (Uncommon), go 14-, recover 11-
25 Hunted: the Champions (Frequently, As Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, As Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: Mechanon (Infrequently, As Pow, Kill)
20 Psychological Complication: Code Of Honor (Common,
Total)
20 Psychological Complication: Overconfident, Arrogant,
And Determined To Win (Very Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Ariax Thone, Malvan
super-gladiator) (Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 854
35 10 10 30
18- 13- 13- 17-
18 18
17-
120 Fiery Attacks: Multipower, 120-point powers
12f 1) Flame Bolt I: Blast 24d6 12
11f 2) Flame Bolt II: Blast 18d6 Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
12f 3) Flame Bolt III: Blast 16d6 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
9f 4) Flame Bolt IV: RKA 4d6
Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
4 0 3
12f 5) Fireball I: Blast 16d6 12 Area Of Effect (32m Radius Explosion; +1⁄2)
10f 6) Fireball II: Blast 12d6
Area Of Effect (26m Radius Explosion; +1⁄2), Reduced
Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4) 12f 7) Cutting Fire: Blast 16d6
4 5
Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4) 12f 8) Irresistible Fire: Blast 16d6 12
Penetrating (+1⁄2)
10f 9) Dimension-Fire: Blast 12d6 4
Affects Desolidified (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
12f 10) Withering Heat: Blast 12d6 12 NND (defense is Life Support [Safe Environment:
Intense Heat]; +1)
5f 11) Heating Objects: RKA 2d6 3
Area Of Effect (any Surface up to 16m Radius; +1), Constant (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Only Works On Metallic Or Like Objects (-1⁄2)

Suddenly a great gout of flame, the largest Fire ever witnessed by any living Malvan, erupted from the Furnace, turning night into day for dozens
of miles around the Grand Temple. And from it soared Ariax Thone — the Firewing.
The Fire had brought to Thone power such
as he had never dreamed of, burning away his
old weaknesses and abilities and replacing them with ones far greater. With power came clarity. He knew no one on Malva could challenge him anymore. The Wisdom Stones’ hope — that he would reignite the fires of conquest and glory in the hearts of all Malvans — was a foolish one. What he needed was a challenge worthy of him. He thought of his old rivals, Lar and Dazeur. The Phazor had told him both had found their way
to a strange planet its inhabitants called “Earth,”
a world with even more superpowered people than Malva. Though his power now dwarfed both of theirs, perhaps on Earth a proper challenge awaited him. With the residue of the power of his transformation, he opened a gateway in space and flew through without a second’s hesitation.
And suddenly, below him, lay Earth. There he would find challenges aplenty.
Personality/Motivation: Firewing is a complex individual of shifting priorities. On the one hand, he talks arrogantly about his honor — about how a Malvan deals fairly with his opponents, never attacking from surprise or behind, never refusing a challenge, never using powers beyond his own that his opponent lacks. Because of his honor, and his power, he holds himself up as something greater and more important than any human, even a superpowered one. But on the other hand, Firewing’s desire for victory — his overwhelming need to win, to prove his superiority, to defeat all who would dare to challenge his might — wars with this honor to which he sincerely aspires. Whenever Firewing is confronted with the possi- bility of losing a fight, make EGO Rolls for both Psychological Complications, as if engaging in a Skill Versus Skill Contest. If his Determined To Win has the best roll, he’ll cheat to win if he has to. If his Code Of Honor wins, he’ll stick to it... for now.
One of the most personally powerful supervil- lains in the Champions Universe, Firewing is on Earth for one reason: to experience the challenge of combat. Few superhumans can truly challenge him, at least not until they team up with others, but Firewing will accept almost any invitation
to combat. Some villains have tricked him by playing on this trait, but that’s a dangerous game, for Firewing’s wrath when he finds out he’s been played for a fool is terrible to behold.
But of course, one cannot fight all the time. Thone is intelligent and curious, and has spent a lot of time over the years learning about Earth’s cultures and customs. He’s no expert by any stretch of the imagination, but he’s no longer the (sometimes humorously) ignorant alien visitor he was when he first arrived. He particularly enjoys this thing called “opera.”

MaLVaN GLaDIaTORs
Despite the loss of three of the most popular gladiators, on Malva the duels in the arena continue; the Phazor and his people must have diversions!
The typical Malvan gladiator is, at best, a Heroic character built on about 175 Total Points. He doesn’t possess any superpowers, but instead uses natural fighting skills and weapons. But though most of the gladiators fit this description, they pale in power and popularity to the superhuman gladiators, whose names and likenesses are known all over the planet. Most of these are built on about 250-350 Total Points, similar to Low-Powered Superheroic characters.
A select few Malvan gladiators, the best of the best, are built on 350-450 Total Points, making them a match for a typical Earth superhero. Usually there are no more than one or two dozen of these active on the fighting circuit at any given time, but it varies from year to year.
The main gladiatorial fights take place at the Grand Arena in the heart of Malva itself. However, as discussed on CU 148-49, the Malvans recently built the Forum Malvanum in a secret place on Earth’s Moon. Earth’s superhumans are sometimes kidnapped to fight there; if they survive they’re returned to Earth (usually with their memories of the experience erased).


Quote: “Even defeat is an honor, if it comes after a noble struggle against a superior foe. And so shall I honor you now.”
Powers/Tactics: Firewing’s powers involve the control and manipulation of a quasi-magical Malvan flame. He can produce many different types of fire-blasts, fly, shield himself from attacks, sheathe himself in flame, and erect walls of fire. His power is enough to give anyone, even Dr. Destroyer, pause.
In battle, Firewing usually relies on his Flame Bolts, switching to other powers only if they prove ineffective. He’s aggressive more than tactical — while he didn’t survive the arenas for so many years by being a fool, these days he’s more inclined to rely on sheer power instead of clever maneuvering. Unless he has trouble hitting targets with his ordinary OCV, he keeps most of his Skill Levels in DCV.
Firewing prefers one-on-one battles whenever possible (though sometimes he deliberately invites more than one person to fight him). If superhe- roes gang up on him without his consent, and the fight begins to go badly, he’ll accuse them of acting “dishonorably” and withdraw until he can take them on individually.
Campaign Use: Firewing should be powerful enough to represent a challenge to entire PC teams — though he’s not truly a “master villain,” since he has no interest in conquest, he should be close to them in terms of power. If he doesn’t meet this description, increase his defenses and powers until he does; perhaps give him some additional attacks (like a Flash, or a “flame cage” he can trap opponents with). On the other hand, if he’s too powerful, you should decrease the DCs in his attacks until he’s only terrifying.

Firewing won’t voluntarily work for other villains; he doesn’t consider that honorable or
a good use of his time. He can sometimes be tricked into it, but as mentioned above, this is, literally, playing with fire — if he finds out, he’s almost certain to become Enraged and burn
his tormentor to a cinder. On the other hand,
if someone led Firewing to a superhuman he wants to challenge but hasn’t yet come across
or found (see below), he might consider that he owes that person a “debt of honor” and repay it by performing some sort of “mission” for him.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Firewing divides the Superhuman World into a few specific categories: people I know can give me a good fight; people who might be able to give me a good fight (i.e., superhumans he hasn’t met yet but suspects are worthy of his attention); and people who can’t give me a good fight. The third category he ignores altogether; the first two are people he seeks out to challenge.
Villains he’s encountered who fit into the first category include: Borealis; Gravitar; Kinematik; Mechanon (who loathes him as an example of powerful extraterrestrial organic life); Sunburst; the Warlord; many villain teams (including the Crimelords, the Crowns of Krim, Eurostar, and the Ultimates); Dark Seraph (individually); Galaxia; Hurricane; and Vector. (The heroes Hyperion
and Tetsuronin also belong to this category, as do many hero teams including the Champions, the Sentinels, and the Justice Squadron. He also accords Ironclad and Herculan status in this category due to their longstanding competitions dating all the way back to Malva, though he’s aware that at his current level of power neither of them could stand up to him in a one-on-one fight.)
Villains whom he believes belong in the second category include: Dr. Destroyer (i.e., Shadow Destroyer, though he’d feel the same way about the real Dr. Destroyer if he knew Zerstoiten were still alive); Holocaust; Mechanon; the Slug; Dr. Yin Wu; Black Paladin; Josiah Brimstone; Cairngorm; Eclipsar; Galeforce; Geothermal; Glacier, Li Chun the Destroyer; the Living Sphinx; the Monster; Stormfront; Taipan (whom he’s considered breaking out of prison for a fight); Terrayne; Valak the World-Ravager; and Zorran the Artificer. He’s particularly eager to fight Eclipsar, Geothermal, Li Chun, and Valak... if only he could find them.
Firewing despises any superhuman whom
he considers a “coward” — in other words, who refuses to fight him somehow. Heading this particular list is the Incubus, who’s used trickery to avoid Firewing’s challenges several times. He also hates Kanrok the Acquisitioner, who wants to capture him and return him to the arena.
Appearance: Firewing wears a costume of brown and gold-orange with a stylized sort of raptor motif in the front. Flames flicker from his eyes and the top of his head, and when he’s flying or in battle, wings of fire sprout from his shoulderblades.

FIREWING FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Firewing if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Firewing is a fire-projecting supervillain who’s generally acknowledged to be the most powerful energy projector on Earth.
K/R: His real name is Ariax Thone; he’s an alien from the planet Malva and once used his powers to fight in the super-gladiatorial combats held there.
-1: Firewing’s raison d’etre is to test himself in combat against other superhumans and prove himself superior; he has no interest in using his power to conquer the world or commit crimes (except to the extent necessary to get superheroes to fight him). He often shows up out of the blue and challenges a hero to battle. He cares little how much destruction and death he causes, provided he gets a good fight.
-2: Firewing takes his fighting and his challenges very seri- ously; he fights fairly, and often becomes extremely angry when confronted with betrayal, treachery, cheating, sneaky tactics, or dirty fighting.
-4: Unlike many fire-manipulating superhumans, Firewing isn’t particularly vulnerable to attacks involving Ice/Cold or Water

