FLESHTONE
Background/History: Owen Temple was a low- ranking scientist in the pay of Duchess Industries. He specialized in biology, particularly in projects whose goal was to speed the aging process of, and increase the yield from, meat food animals like cows and pigs.
One day while he was working in his lab a crew was cleaning out some materials from old experi- ments. Unfortunately, Duchess’s safety precautions and menial workmen were not of the best. One of them tripped and dropped the whole load on top of Dr. Temple. Temple was doused with a veritable dog’s breakfast of biomedical waste, experimental sera, unapproved drugs, and other castoffs from Duchess’s biology laboratories. The pain from both the impact and the chemicals was intense, and he soon passed out.
He awakened in the hospital, covered from head to toe in bandages. Then, to his doctors’ astonishment, he began to recover at a rapid pace. They took the bandages off in just two days — at which point Temple discovered he’d be scarred
for life by the accident. He was bitter and angry about it until later that night, when he felt his flesh somehow move over his bones, rearranging itself to eliminate the scar tissue. Astonishment couldn’t begin to describe how he felt, and his feelings became more intense when he realized he could reshape his flesh and bones at will. Even better, a little experimentation on his comatose roommate showed that his powers worked on other people
as well.
Duchess personnel arrived the next day to “convince” him to return to the corporation for “further study and care.” When they made it quite clear they wouldn’t take “No” for an answer, Temple twisted both their bodies into grotesque shapes and walked out of the hospital.
The next time the world saw Owen Temple, he was different. He’d used his powers to make himself bigger, stronger, tougher, faster, and more frightening of appearance. He called himself Fleshtone and set out to show the world just how terrifying (and lucrative) his powers could be.
Personality/Motivation: Fleshtone doesn’t really think of people as “people” anymore. To him they’re more like “raw materials” that he can manipulate, change, and discard as he sees fit. When the mood takes him, he considers them “clay” that he “sculpts” into more aesthetically- pleasing forms.
Quote: “How does it feel to know you’ve become something unique, something far more intriguing than that mundane human form you once wore?”
Powers/Tactics: Fleshtone has the terrifying power to mold, shape, and warp flesh and bone. He can rearrange a person’s face to make him hideously ugly or quite handsome, twist bones and organs to cause pain or injury, or simply kill someone by altering his body so he cannot survive
(for example, by covering up his mouth and nose with flesh so he suffocates). On the other hand, he can also affect flesh to improve a person’s body (something he’s done with his own, toning and hardening it to increase his strength, reflexes, and resistance to injury, though his improved metabo- lism is more susceptible to drugs, poisons, and the like). Most of his victims return to normal over the course of a few minutes, but he can make permanent changes if he wants to. More than one person who’s seen the results of his “handiwork” has had to go into therapy because of the night- marish memories.
In game terms, Fleshtone’s primary abilities are represented by a Drain and an Aid. These work against “any physical Characteristic or attribute.” This means not only STR, DEX, CON, PRE,
OCV, DCV, SPD, PD, ED, REC, END, BODY, and STUN, but anything else the GM thinks he could affect like Running, Leaping, or Senses. He cannot affect superpowers (like Sapphire’s Blasts) per se, but he can easily re-arrange someone’s body to make them (or various Skills) harder to use.
In combat Fleshtone often relies on Presence Attacks as much as his powers. He’s fully aware of the horror he can cause with the casual flick of his finger, and in fact sometimes seems to revel in it.
Campaign Use: Fleshtone is a powerful villain whose bizarre powers could easily leave more than one member of a superteam dead or permanently altered. Use him with care, since the odds of convincing him to undo his “work” are slim.
To make Fleshtone more powerful, increase his physical Characteristics and abilities (on the grounds that he can work better, more longer- lasting changes on his own form). To weaken him, decrease his CON to 20 and SPD to 4.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Very few villains are willing to work or associate with Fleshtone. He’s widely (and correctly) regarded as psychotic, dangerous, and extremely disturbing. A handful of villains who are already disturbed (such as Freakshow) might team up with him. Some, most prominently Professor Paradigm and Teleios, are intrigued enough to want to learn more about him and maybe even (with his permission) study him.
Duchess Industries (which is to say, VIPER) still wants to bring Fleshtone in for “study” (and, eventually, indoctrination/brainwashing). Naturally he would prefer otherwise, so he takes any opportunity he can to interfere with VIPER operations or make it harder for them to cause him trouble.
Appearance: Fleshtone has used his own flesh- manipulating powers to give himself just the appearance he wants. His body is taut, muscular, and thick-necked, the equal of any world-class weightlifter’s. His face has a vaguely skull- or gorilla-like appearance in some aspects, to make him more frightening. As a costume he wears
a featureless maroon bodystocking, gloves, and boots.

FLESHTONE FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Fleshtone if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Fleshtone is a “biokinetic” super- villain who has the power to warp, meld, and manipulate
flesh and bone in ways that are often horrifying.
K/R: VIPER seems to have a grudge against Fleshtone; it’s tried to kill or capture him several times.
-6: Due to his strange metabolism, Fleshtone is particu- larly susceptible to attacks from drugs, chemicals, gases, and poisons.
-10: His Secret Identity is Owen Temple; he used
to be a researcher working for Duchess Industries.

Val Char Cost Roll
25 STR 15 14- 23 DEX 26 14- 25 CON 15 14- 15 INT 5 12- 15 EGO 5 12- 20 PRE 10 13-
8 OCV 25 8 DCV 25 3 OMCV 0 5 DMCV 6
Notes 7f Lift 800 kg; 5d6 HTH damage [2]
4) Fleshwarping IV: Major Transform 9d6 (living being with normal fleshy form to one with altered fleshy form, heals back when Fleshtone or a similarly- powered biokinetic reverses the process) 9 Limited Target (beings made of flesh; -1⁄4)
5) Flesh- And Bone-Wracking I: Blast 6d6 9
NND (defense is a PD Resistant Protection defined as a force-field or the like, or not having a skeleton or flesh; +1), Does BODY (+1)
6) Flesh- And Bone-Wracking II: RKA 2d6 9 NND (defense is a PD Resistant Protection defined as
a force-field or the like, or not having a skeleton or flesh; +1), Does BODY (+1)
7) What Can Be Torn Asunder Can Be Made Whole:
Healing 4d6 7
Variable Effect (any one physical Characteristic at a time; +1⁄2), Ranged (+1⁄2); Only Works On Fleshy Beings (-1⁄4)
Hardened Flesh: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 6 PD/6 ED 0 Pain Resistance: Physical and Energy Damage Reduc-
tion, Resistant, 50% 0 Rapid Healing: Regeneration (2 BODY per Hour) 0 Appearance Manipulation: Shape Shift (Sight and Touch
Groups, any humanoid shape), Imitation 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Cosmetic Details Only (-1⁄4), Extra Time (takes 1 Minute to alter shape; -3⁄4)
Skills
+6 with Fleshwarping Multipower Breakfall 14-
Climbing 14-
Contortionist 16-
PS: Sculpting 11-
SS: Biology 12-
SS: Human Anatomy 12- Stealth 14-
Streetwise 13-
5 SPD 20 PD
30
18
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 20 PD (6 rPD)
Total: 20 ED (6 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 226
9f
9f
6f
20 ED 10REC 6 50 END 6 15 BODY 5 42 STUN 11
Movement: Running: Cost Powers
fLesHTONe
18
100 Fleshworking: Multipower, 100-point reserve
8f 1) Fleshwarping I: Drain Physical Abilities 4d6 8
Variable Effect (any one physical Characteristic or attribute at a time; +1⁄2), Delayed Return Rate (points return at the rate of 5 per Minute; +1); Only Works On Fleshy Beings (-1⁄4)
6f 2) Fleshwarping II: Aid Physical Abilities 4d6 7
12m 6
Variable Effect (any one physical Characteristic or
attribute at a time; +1⁄2), Delayed Return Rate (points 30
return at the rate of 5 per Minute; +1), Ranged (+1⁄2); Only Works On Fleshy Beings (-1⁄4)
2f 3) Fleshwarping III: Change Environment (-5 to all
Agility Skills and DEX Rolls) 2 Only Works On Fleshy Beings (-1⁄4)
END
60
16 24
3
3
7
2
3
3
3
3
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 310 Total Cost: 536
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: UNTIL (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
25 Hunted: Duchess Industries (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Casual Killer (Very
Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Likes To Make People Into
“Flesh Art” (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Owen Temple)
(Frequently, Major)
20 Vulnerability: 2 x Effect from Drugs/Gases/Chemicals/
Poisons (Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 136

