Background/History: “Penhurst! Bring me some more issues of Justice Squadron; I’ve finished all these.”
“I’m sorry, Master Frederick, but your mother has instructed me to purchase no more sequen- tially illustrated stories on your behalf.”
“What!?!? Why not?”
“I’m sure I don’t know, sir.” “Moooommmm!”
“Yes, dear?”
“Penhurst says I can’t have any more comic
books!”
“Yes, dear, I’m afraid he’s right.”
“Why not? I haven’t done anything wrong.” “Things aren’t going very well in your father’s
business, dear. We don’t have any more money for things like comic books.”
Oh, no! But in the crucibles of misfortune, great destinies are forged.
After a few despondent days, Freddy realized something — this wasn’t a setback, it was the start of his origin story! It was time for him to step up and join the ranks of superhumanity as he knew he always would one day. But should he become
a hero, or a villain? He waffled back and forth a long time, but a tragedy such as he had suffered could only embitter a man, and turn him toward the dark side. A villain he would become. Heroes were a stupid, boring lot. Therefore, he would be... a Foxbat!
After raiding his trust fund for seed money, Freddy began an intensive training regimen. Gymnastics and martial arts alternated with studying electronics and practicing his criminal skills. When he was ready, he started designing the amazing Foxbatgadgets with which he would terrorize all humanity! Well, or rob the Freezy Delight downtown, whichever seemed like more fun at the time. Ice cream....
And at last the time came to assume the mantle that destiny has woven for him — the mantle of Foxbat, greatest villain the world has ever seen! Standing on a rooftop, silhouetted against the setting sun, Foxbat casts his dark shadow over a world that shall tremble in fear at the very sound of his name! Although his first crime, an attempt to steal the Empire State Building in 1993, didn’t quite work out as expected, no doubt his latest Master Plan will bring the heroes of Earth to
their knees!
Personality/Motivation: Not exactly the most well-balanced individual to begin with, Freddy Foswell came completely unhinged when he found out his family had lost its fortune and he could
no longer live a life of idle luxury, spending all of his time reading comic books. He’s convinced he’s actually living in a comic book — a grand story in which he is the major figure, almost hero and villain both. His crimes have no rhyme or reason, though the ones that succeed are often profit- able; he’s just trying to act the way a supervillain should act.
Foxbat goes through other delusions the way normal people change their clothes. He often fixates on a particular hero, “Hunting” him for a time, then reversing course and trying to become his sidekick. He conducts bizarre scavenger hunts in which he, for example, tries to acquire every Volkswagen Beetle in the city. He threatens public officials with the Noogie-o-Matic. He’s crackers.
Since this whole supervillain thing is all for fun, Foxbat has no desire to hurt anyone. What good is that? But unfortunately, sometimes Freddy’s warped perceptions lead to tragic conse- quences. People in the real world don’t always heal as fast as they do in the comics.
Quote: “I’m the bad guy, right?”
Powers/Tactics: Despite his lunacy, or perhaps because of it, Foxbat is a surprisingly skilled individual with the general strength and build of someone who engages in regular intensive exer- cise. He’s also good with his hands, able to pick locks (or pockets) and wiggle his way into or out of tiny spaces.
In combat, Foxbat relies mainly on his Amazing Ping-Pong Ball Gun, which can fire several different types of gimmicked ammunition. He can also use his martial arts skills, but that’s not nearly as exciting as shooting people!
Foxbat’s main goals in combat are to look good and have fun, which are a far cry from being tacti- cally effective or winning. For example, he loves
to fly (sure, it’s really gliding, but try telling him that), and often wastes one or two Phases per Turn just making dramatic glides across the battlefield. He also enjoys soliloquizing about his Master Plan.
Campaign Use: Foxbat is intended primarily
as a humorous break from otherwise serious Champions stories and adventures. He works best by himself, in a vaguely “master villain-ish” role in which the GM supplies him with what- ever gadgets, vehicles, and henchmen he needs to accomplish his current Master Plan. When running him, use his Luck liberally — sometimes as much as every Phase, particularly if it helps to keep him from becoming seriously hurt.
You can easily make Foxbat less powerful by reducing the Active Points in his gun or stripping away Skills and reducing Characteristics. As long as he’s still an appropriately humorous foil for the PCs, it doesn’t matter. If, for some bizarre reason, you want to make him a serious threat, increase his Amazing Ping-Pong Ball Gun to a 75 Active Point reserve (and improve the slots to match), or even give him a Gadget Pool.
As a Hunter, Foxbat is even more of an insuf- ferable nuisance than normal. If insulted or made to look the fool, he’ll start to pick on the offending superhero endlessly, singling him out for pranks and annoying but harmless “attacks” reminiscent of gags seen in comics and on television.

Val Char Cost
FOXBAT
Roll Notes
6 Foxbatmasklenses: +6 versus Range Modifier for
Sight Group 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
2 Foxbatearpiece: Ultrasonic Perception (Hearing Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
6 Foxbatearpiece: Radio Perception/Transmission
(Radio Group) 0 OIF (-1⁄2), Affected As Hearing Group As Well As Radio Group (-1⁄4)
30 Fortune Of Fools: Luck 6d6 Perks
10 Money: Wealthy Talents
6 Combat Luck (3 PD/3 ED)
5 Lightning Reflexes: +5 to act first with All Actions
Skills
12 +1 Overall
20 +4 with Amazing Ping-Pong Ball Gun Multipower
3 Acrobatics 13-
3 Acting 13-
3 Breakfall 13-
3 Computer Programming 13- 3 Contortionist 13-
3 Disguise 13-
3 Electronics 13-
1 High Society 8-
2 CK: Millennium City 11-
1 KS: Bats 8-
5 KS: Comic Books 15-
5 KS: The Superhuman World 15- 3 Lockpicking 13-
3 Mimicry 13-
3 Persuasion 13-
3 Shadowing 13-
3 Security Systems 13-
3 Sleight Of Hand 13-
3 Stealth 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 256 Total Cost: 400
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Hunted: Champions (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Hunted: the supervillain he’s most recently annoyed (Mo
Pow, Administer A Sound Thrashing)
25 Psychological Complication: Thinks He’s Living In A
Comic Book (Very Common, Total)
20 Psychological Complication: Code Versus Killing
(Common, Total)
5 Rivalry: Professional (with whichever hero or villain he’s
currently obsessing over)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Frederick “Freddy”
Foswell) (Frequently, Major)
15 Vulnerability: 11⁄2 x Effect from Presence Attacks (Very
Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0
20 STR 18 DEX 20 CON 18 INT 11 EGO 20 PRE
10 13- 16 13- 10 13-
8 13-
1 11- 10 13-
Lift 400 kg; 4d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 19 PD (11 rPD)
Total: 17 ED (11 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 144
6 OCV 15 6 DCV 15 3 OMCV 0 5 DMCV 6 5 SPD 30
8 PD 6 6 ED 4 8 REC 4 40 END 4 10 BODY 0 30 STUN 5
Movement:
Cost Powers
Running: Leaping:
Flight (Gliding):
18m 12m 40m
25 The Amazing Ping-Pong Ball Gun: Multipower, 50-point reserve
All OAF (-1)
2f 1) Explodoball: Blast 8d6
OAF (-1), 8 Charges (-1⁄2) plus: Sight Group Flash 2d6
OAF (-1), Linked (-1⁄2), 8 Charges (-1⁄2) 2f 2) Hardball: Blast 10d6
OAF (-1), Stun Only (-0), 8 Charges (-1⁄2) 2f 3) Glueball: Entangle 5d6, 5 PD/5 ED
OAF (-1), 8 Charges (-1⁄2) 2f 4) KOball: Blast 5d6
NND (defense is Life Support [Self-Contained
Breathing]; +1); OAF (-1), 8 Charges (-1⁄2)
2f 5) Smokeball: Darkness to Sight Group 8m radius
Personal Immunity (+1⁄4); OAF (-1), 8 Charges (-1⁄2)
Martial Arts: Generic
Maneuver OCV DCV Notes
[8]
[8] [8] [8]
[8]
4 Block
4 Dodge
5 Kick
4 Punch 3 Throw
+2 +2 — +5
-2 +1 +0 +2 +0 +1
Block, Abort
Dodge, Affects All Attacks, Abort
8d6 Strike
6d6 Strike
4d6 + v/10; Target Falls
16 Foxbatcostume: Resistant Protection (8 PD/8 ED) OIF (-1⁄2)
6 Run!: Running +6m (18m total)
4 Bound!: Leaping +8m (12m forward, 6m upward) 16 Fly!: Flight 40m
OIF (glider-wings; -1⁄2), Gliding (-1)
3 Foxbatmasklenses: Infrared Perception (Sight Group)
OIF (-1⁄2)
3 Foxbatmasklenses: Ultraviolet Perception (Sight Group)
OIF (-1⁄2)

Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: The Super- human World’s opinion about Foxbat is mixed. Most heroes and good-hearted villains see him
as a lovable lunatic, someone who needs to be stopped before he hurts himself or others but who’s generally more of an entertainment than
a threat. More serious heroes think his career needs to be shut down fast and hard, and Foxbat himself put in a padded cell for life. A few villains, including the Overbrain, Black Paladin, Buzzsaw, Green Dragon, Mechassassin, and Vibron, think Foxbat is somehow directly or indirectly insulting them and intend to beat the tar out of him for it.
Foxbat once rescued Ogre from some cops. As a result Ogre now thinks of Foxbat as his “little buddy” and goes out of his way to protect him if necessary.
For reasons known only to himself, Foxbat is convinced that El Salto is his arch-nemesis. He intends to teach the impudent little Mexican bandito a lesson... just as soon as they meet.
Appearance: Foxbat wears a two-tone brown costume, with light brown on the legs, sides, arms, and mask and dark brown for the trunks, center chest, and shoulders. His boots and gloves, belt, the glider wings under his arms, and the flares on his mask are dull yellow. He carries the Amazing Ping-Pong Ball Gun in a dull yellow holster attached to his belt.
Freddy Foswell is 5’10” tall and weighs 160 pounds. He has the build of a man who engages in intensive regular exercise.
FOXBATFACTS!
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Foxbat if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Foxbat is awesome. He has a Ping-Pong Ball Gun which is equally awesome. He can fly, too!
K/R: Well, OK, he can glide, whatever.
-1: Despite his reputation, Foxbat is actually pretty skilled
and well-armed.
-2: In 2006 Foxbat conquered the world of rock ’n’ roll with his sold-out Foxbatpalooza show, but has subsequently been unavailable for record deals.
-4: A large number of superheroines and villainesses, including Gravitar, Gyre, Istvatha V’han, Mantara, Sapphire, Talisman, Witchcraft, and Zephyr, are in love with Foxbat... but knowing that the Masked Man of Mystery can never return their affections lest he place their lives in danger, they keep their feelings secret from him and the world.
-6: Win a dream date with Foxbat! Just go to www.foxbati- sawesome.com and enter your secret code to see if you’re the one who gets to spend a night on the town with the fantabulous Foxbat!
-8: Ice cream....
-10: His Secret Identity is Frederick “Freddy” Foswell; he’s the son of a formerly wealthy family that’s fallen on hard times.

