Background/History: In 1990, Advanced Concepts Industries fired Jacob Sacco from his janito-
rial job at its Detroit chemical research plant because of chronic absence. Jacob frequently overslept because he was always staying up late watching horror movies on cable. Besides, he
had that monster-movie convention to help run, and operated a side business buying and selling paraphernalia from movies and TV shows like
the long-running Dark Slasher series. So he was
a little late a few times — that was no reason for his horse-faced supervisor to fire him! Now he couldn’t pay his rent and might have to move back in with his parents.
Then Jacob thought of a good way to make some money and get his revenge on his supervisor. He knew the company hadn’t exactly followed the most stringent safety precautions while dumping some chemical waste in a landfill in River Rouge. If he called the local paper, maybe he could get a reward. First he had to make sure it was still there, though. That’s how he found himself crawling through the smelly landfill site after midnight, crowbar in hand, looking for those barrels he knew had to be “around here somewhere.” And that’s how he found himself running from an over- zealous security guard, who fired a warning shot into the air and began chasing him through the dump site. Terrified, Jacob stumbled in the dark and cut his side on a protruding piece of metal as he lost his footing and fell.
He tumbled down a hill, crashing to a halt in
a puddle of some awful, slightly-glowing muck. The guard raced to the top of the hill above him, shouting something about him not moving. So
he didn’t move. The muck was making him feel warm, kind of tingly all over. A strange feeling, but not entirely unpleasant. The guard was slowly walking down the hill with his gun still pointing at Jacob. Jacob looked down at his side. The wound was closing, the skin knitting itself up. The guard came closer, and stood staring down at Jacob. “Damn, are you still alive?” said the guard half to himself as he gazed at the figure lying in the muck. “Nope,” replied Jacob, as he casually leaped to his feet with a single motion and grabbed the guard. He savored every last bit of the guard’s terror before he snapped the man’s neck.
Things to do, places to go, people to kill, thought Jacob Sacco. Detroit was about to learn a new word for fear.
Personality/Motivation: Jacob Sacco lost his mind that night in the landfill. His insanity has manifested itself through his lifelong fascination with horror movies, carnivals, clowns, and freaks. He sees himself as some sort of avatar of terror, his only purpose in life to frighten. He commits


crimes not for profit, but to increase the overall level of fear in Millennium City. He kills some
of his victims, but leaves others alive because the uncertainty of their fate creates greater emotional power than just killing everyone. The Millennium City papers dubbed him “Freakshow,” a name he’s adopted as a badge of honor. He’s almost patho- logically drawn to places where people choose to be frightened: Halloween parties, horror movies, summer fairs, and carnivals.
Quote: “Boo.”
Powers/Tactics: Freakshow’s mutation granted him powers that maximize his ability to frighten people. He’s preternaturally strong and fast, and though he’s relatively easy to hurt he recovers from injury with astonishing speed. He can track victims by “smelling their fear,” and frequently toys with a victim by allowing him to run until exhaustion while staying just behind him. He can even cause people to experience frightening “waking nightmares” simply by touching them.
Campaign Use: Freakshow’s powers don’t really lend themselves to direct confrontation with superheroes. He’s more effective as a threat to a character’s DNPC, especially if the heroes must then pursue him through some appropriately atmospheric scenery (spooky old mansions, with- ered garden mazes, and other places where he can split up a team and attack them one at a time from ambush). He might decide to terrorize ACI in revenge for its part in his creation, which should put the heroes in the interesting position of having to defend or rescue people they really don’t care much for. He’s fought Kinetik a couple of times, and neither has enjoyed the experience.
If you want to make Freakshow tough enough to fight superheroes directly, increase his defenses and give him more powers (an Entangle defined
as “paralyzed by fear”; an NND RKA defined as “scared to death”; and so forth). If he’s already too powerful for your PCs to tangle with, reduce his Damage Reduction to 25% and his Healing Regen- eration to 2d6.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: With a very few exceptions (Black Harlequin being one), other villains don’t want anything to do with Freakshow. He’s just too creepy and unpredictable. The only exception is when a villain’s plan involves scaring people somehow; for example Holocaust hired him in 2006.
Appearance: Freakshow stands about 6’3”, but weighs only about 155 pounds — he’s scarecrow- skinny, almost as if starving to death. He shaves his hair into a frazzled orange mohawk. He dresses mostly in black leather, with a torn t-shirt, spiked belt, and motorcycle boots. He wears thin wrap- around mirrorshades, and has a scarred, twisted upper lip.


FREAKSHOW FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Freakshow if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Freakshow is a villain who special- izes in terrifying people, often killing them in the process.
K/R: Freakshow is extremely difficult to hurt; his injuries begin healing almost as soon as he suffers them.
-6: Freakshow
is almost patho- logically drawn to places where people choose to be fright- ened: horror movies; Halloween events; carnivals; certain amusement park rides; and the like.
-10: His Secret Identity is Jacob Sacco; he used to be a janitor working at Advanced Concepts Industries but was fired for chronic absence.


Val Char Cost
25 STR 27 DEX 22 CON 10 INT 18 EGO 25 PRE
Roll
15
34 14- 12 13-
15
Notes
Lift 800 kg; 5d6 [2]
PER Roll 11- PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 Total: 15 PD (3 rPD)
Total: 10 ED (3 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 248
12m 20m
8 OCV 25 7 DCV 20
6 OMCV
6 DMCV 9
50
7 SPD 15 PD
13 8 14 REC 10 45END 5 15 BODY 5 40 STUN 10
10 ED
FREAKSHOW
Skills
30 +3 with All Combat
8 +4 OMCV with Mind Scan
3 Acrobatics 14-
3 Breakfall 14-
3 Climbing 14-
3 AK: North Detroit 12- 2 SS: Chemistry 11-
5 SS: Pharmacology/Toxicology 14- 5 Stealth 15-
9 Tactics 14-
2 WF: Common Melee Weapons Total Powers & Skills Cost: 310
Total Character Cost: 558
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Enraged: when frustrated (Common), go 11-, recover 11- 20 Hunted: MCPD (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Limited
Geographical Area, Capture)
20 Hunted: the Champions (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Obsessed with Horror
Movies, Circuses, And Freaks (Very Common, Strong) 20 Psychological Complication: Loves To Frighten People
(Very Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Jacob Sacco)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 158
Movement: Running: Leaping:
Cost Powers
END
6
5 [4rc] 6
0
8 13-
9
14-
11- 14-
30 Nightmare Projection: Mental Illusions 12d6 No Range (-1⁄2), Only To Create Horrifying
Nightmares (-1⁄2)
20 I Can Feel Your Fear: Mind Scan 10d6
Cannot Attack Through Link (-1), Only Works If Target Is Frightened (-1⁄2)
8 Bag O’ Knives: HKA 1d6 (21⁄2d6 with STR)
Range Based On STR (+1⁄4); OAF (-1), 4 Recover-
able Charges (-1⁄2)
18 All In The Wrist: Reflection (60 Active Points’ worth)
Only Versus Thrown Objects (-3⁄4), Requires A DEX Roll (-1⁄2)
3 Supernatural Resilience: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 3 PD/3 ED 0 60 Supernatural Resilience: Physical and Energy
Damage Reduction, Resistant, 50% 0 10 Supernatural Health: Life Support (Immunity: all
terrestrial diseases and poisons) 0 3 Fear Never Sleeps: Life Support (Diminished Sleep:
no need to sleep) 0 64 Can’t Kill Me That Easily: Regeneration (4 BODY
per Turn) 0 8 Here I Come: Leaping +16m (20m Total) 1 5 Can’t Hide In The Dark: Nightvision 0 4 He’s In Here Somewhere: Clinging (normal STR) 0
Only To Perch (-1⁄2), Requires A Climbing Roll (-1⁄2), Cannot Resist Knockback (-1⁄4)
Talents
4 Double-Jointed

