Background/History: Robert Garrett began displaying the mutant power to control earth and stone in his mid-teens. Concerned for their son, his parents arranged for him to attend the Raven- swood Academy after the Academy’s director, the former superheroine Rowan, contacted them and explained the school’s unique curriculum.
Robert graduated in 2001. He didn’t have any real interest in becoming a superhero; he wanted to use his powers to become a famous sculptor and artist. He enrolled in college to study art history.
One day while he was walking to class a team of VIPER agents shot him with a drugged dart, dragged him into a van, and took him back to their Nest. For several months he was subjected to brainwashing to make him loyal to VIPER and a willing agent of Dragon Branch under the codename Geos. The treatments worked, and for almost three years he participated in numerous VIPER schemes and fought superheroes all over the United States.

Val Char Cost
GEOS
Roll Notes
15 STR 20 DEX 20 CON 10 INT 10 EGO 15 PRE
5 20 10 0 0 5
12- 13- 13- 11- 11- 12-
Lift 200 kg; 3d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 11- PRE Attack: 3d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 26 PD (18 rPD)
Total: 26 ED (18 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 128
6 OCV 15 6 DCV 15 3 OMCV 0 3 DMCV 0
5 SPD 8 PD
30
6
8 ED
7 REC 3 40END 4 13 BODY 3
32 STUN
6
6
Movement: Running: Flight:
24m 20m 12m
Tunneling:
Cost Powers
END
40 Earthmoving: Telekinesis (40 STR) 6 Only Versus Earth/Rock (-1⁄2)
70 Stoneworking Powers: Multipower, 70-point reserve
4f 1) Quake Blast: Blast 8d6 7
Area Of Effect (18m Radius Explosion; +1⁄2), Personal Immunity (+1⁄4); No Range (-1⁄2), Only Affects Targets On The Ground (-1⁄4), Only Does Knockdown, Not Knockback (-0)
6f 2) Earth Lance: Blast 7d6 7
Indirect (Source Point and Path can differ from use to use, though Path must come from the nearby ground; +1); Target Must Be On/Near Earth Or Rock (within 16m; -1⁄4)
5f 3) Stony Prison: Entangle 6d6, 6 PD/6 ED 6 Only Affects Targets On The Ground (-1⁄4)
36 Stone Armor: Resistant Protection (18 PD/18 ED) 0 Must Have Earth/Stone To Create Armor With (-1⁄4),
Perceivable (-1⁄4)
40 Stone Movement: Multipower, 40-point reserve
1f 1) Avalanche Riding: Running +12m (24m total) 1
Physical Manifestation (-1⁄4), Side Effect (RKA 11⁄2d6 to ground in an Area Of Effect (Line) equal in size to the distance the character moves, automatically occurs, only affects environment; -1⁄2)
3f 2) Stone Passage: Tunneling 12m through 6 PD mate- rials, Fill In 3 1f 3) Lithokinetic Riding: Flight 20m 2
Skills
15 +3 with Stoneworking Powers Multipower and Earthmoving
2 KS: Art History 11-
2 KS: Ravenswood Academy 11-
1 KS: VIPER 8-
2 PS: Sculpting 11-
3 Stealth 13-
1 Streetwise 8-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 232 Total Cost: 360
400 Matching Complications (75)
10 Distinctive Features: Mutant (Not Concealable; Always Noticed; Detectable Only By Unusual Senses)
20 Hunted: Peacekeepers (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: VIPER (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Code Versus Killing (Very
Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Thinks He Has No Choice
But To Be A Supercriminal (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Robert Garrett)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0
Physical Manifestation (-1⁄4)

Then, in early 2005, while he and some of his “colleagues” were fighting the Peacekeepers, he suffered a nasty blow to the head. When he woke up a few seconds later the brainwashing was no longer fully intact. Confused and in pain, he fled the battlefield and went into hiding.
Slowly but surely he sorted out his confused, patchwork memories. He vaguely recollected going to school to learn how to use his powers, but he conflated that with his VIPER training and assumed he was part of VIPER all along. He didn’t feel like a criminal, but his memories of commit- ting crimes over the last several years were strong. Still, even if he was a criminal, he didn’t want to go back to VIPER, that just wouldn’t be right... nor did he want to turn himself in.
For the last few years Geos has been on the run. He commits crimes when he must to support himself, but he doesn’t like it so he just stays in hiding as much as possible. VIPER wants him, the authorities want him, everybody wants him — and he just wants to be left alone to sort out the mess that his life’s become.
Personality/Motivation: Geos is basically a decent guy caught up in a horrible situation. He thinks he’s a criminal, so he acts like a criminal even though at heart he’s not one at all — he’s an art student. If someone responsible (like PRIMUS
or a hero team) could catch him long enough
to explain things and undo the remnants of the brainwashing, he could go back to the life he once lived, but so far he’s been too good at evading capture.
GEOS FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Geos if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: Geos is a supervillain with the ability to manipulate rock and stone.
K/R: Geos used to be a member of VIPER’s Dragon Branch, but he apparently left the snakes under something of a cloud in 2005 after a fight with the Peacekeepers, because they’ve been pursuing him ever since.
-1: Geos usually prefers to flee from confrontation (and his ability to ride “waves” of earth, burrow through the ground, or ride flying boulders often makes this easy). When forced to fight he uses
as little force as possible, preferring to rely on his “stony prison” power.
-2: Most of Geos’s attacks only work against targets that are on or near the ground.
-6: Geos is a mutant.
-10: His Secret Identity is Robert Garrett; he’s a former Ravenswood Academy student who was kidnapped and brainwashed by VIPER, has now come to his senses, and is on the run from the law.

Quote: “Stay back! I don’t want to hurt you, but I’m leaving whether you get out of the way or not.”
Powers/Tactics: Geos has the power to control and transform earth and stone. He can’t spontane- ously generate earthen substances — he has to have some existing earth or stone to work with
— but he can do a lot with whatever’s available. He can create “earth lances” to strike his enemies, move earth and stone around telekinetically, protect himself with “stone armor,” create stone cages to imprison opponents, ride telekinetically- carried stones along the ground or through the air, or instantly create (and if necessary seal) tunnels. His various Movement Powers make it difficult for his pursuers to catch him.
Geos usually fights defensively; he’s not a violent person and doesn’t really want to hurt anyone. Only when he gets desperate to escape will he lash out and take the offensive, and even then he’ll rely on his Entangle as much as possible.
Campaign Use: Geos is a project for your heroes — they have to learn what really happen, then find him and convince him of the truth so he can put his life in order. Perhaps the experience will even make him rethink his ideas about not becoming a superhero.
One issue the PCs may need to deal with as they try to “rescue” Geos is this: how did VIPER know who he was and where to find him? Is there a VIPER mole in Ravenswood Academy, or did Geos accidentally give himself away to someone who happened to be associated with the snakes?
To make Geos tougher, expand the range of his powers so he can spontaneously generate stone for various effects; see Champions Powers for plenty of examples. To weaken him, assume he’s not yet fully in control of all of his powers; put Activation Rolls on them.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Geos doesn’t associate with other superhumans; he knows heroes will try to capture him, and he’d prefer not to spend time around supervillains. VIPER, of course, wants him back and pursues him when- ever it gets word of his whereabouts.
One possible safe haven for Geos, though
it hasn’t occurred to him yet, is Kinematik. He doesn’t care about “mutant rights” per se, but being under Kinematik’s wing would offer him a lot of protection from snakes and heroes alike.
Appearance: Geos is a white male, 6’0” tall, with shoulder-length brown hair and a brown “soul patch” moustache. His costume is a light blue tunic with wide sleeves that end midway down his lower arms, puffy light blue pants, a white sash and boots, and a darker blue cape (he wears no gloves or mask).

