GREEN DRAGON
Background/History: Chow Deng was born to
a poor peasant family in central China. As soon
as he could walk, he went to work in the fields assigned to the family. One day, when Deng was only eight years old and his sister Lin five, his parents were both killed in a tractor accident... one whose cause was never precisely determined.
Orphaned and alone, the two siblings barely eked out a living with help from some of the villagers. After they’d lived this hardscrabble exis- tence for more than a year, a group of green-robed monks showed up at their hut. All his life Deng had heard about them in village tales told late at night, but he’d never expected to actually see one of them. They resided in an isolated monastery more than an hour’s walk from the village, where they lived as their predecessors had for centuries.
The monks made Deng a tempting offer: they’d teach him the ancient fighting arts so he could enter something called “the Tournament
of the Dragon” and triumph. In return, they’d support him and his sister. Deng accepted without hesitation.
Many long years of training followed. Intensive exertion brought out Deng’s natural gifts for the martial arts; he grew into a strong, proud young man, far more skilled at combat than anyone else at the Jade Monastery. He thought he was ready for the Tournament, but the monks soon dashed his hopes — they told him he had many more years to go.
Deng wouldn’t accept that. It sounded ridicu- lous to him. In fact, the whole Tournament thing sounded a little ridiculous. Why work and work for that, when he could use his skills to make good money in America? Taking his sister with him, Deng fled the monastery and made his way to the United States. The monks never found them, if in fact they ever pursued them.
Deng quickly became disgusted with America and its people. His masters had told him Ameri- cans were undisciplined and foolish, and they were right. His sister, on the other hand, was enchanted. While he was content to live apart from those around him, she embraced America and all of its unique qualities. This disgusted him, too, but despite his harangues, she did as she wished.
Deng began testing his skills by picking fights, which led to confrontations with police officers. Beating them up wasn’t much harder than beating up other martial artists. But then he met someone more his size: the superhero Shugoshin. Deng fought well, but he couldn’t overcome his gaudily- clad foe’s skill. The incident infuriated him. Being beaten — and by a Westerner! — was the most humiliating thing that had ever happened to him.
Soon after that Deng fell in with the tongs. They’d heard of his fight with Shugoshin and were impressed with his skill and power despite his loss.
He began doing “jobs” for them, jobs that not only earned him fat paychecks but gave him the chance to practice his fighting skills and vent his rage. He crippled or maimed many of his opponents, but he didn’t care. His masters nicknamed him Lù Lóng, “Green Dragon,” and gave him a costume like
the ones other martial artist “supervillains” wore. He took the name and the costume as a badge of honor.
Green Dragon soon found out he could make even more money working for other criminal organizations, such as VIPER. He became a mercenary villain, working for whoever could pay him top dollar and give him an opportunity for a good fight.
Personality/Motivation: Some martial artists acquire their skills through strength of character and willingness to sacrifice a part of their lives for the sake of overall personal growth. Green Dragon isn’t one of those martial artists. He’s a headstrong, stubborn, proud, angry young man who’s learned his skills through a combination of innate talent and pure cussedness. Essentially he’s a bully stub- born enough to learn martial arts. He uses his fighting skills to push people around, to make himself feel “big,” to get what he wants. He doesn’t tread the path of self-restraint and inner peace,
as most martial artists of his level of ability do.
In fact, he’s so busy fighting his way through the jungle he probably couldn’t even find that path.
On top of this, Green Dragon is a vicious anti- Western bigot (despite the fact that insults to his ethnicity often send him into a rage). He considers Westerners, particularly Americans, to be lazy, undisciplined, and stupid. As far as he’s concerned, beating them up and taking their money is just cultural evolution in action.
But Green Dragon isn’t wholly without good qualities. He’s an honorable person and warrior. To him, “honor” means he won’t attack opponents from ambush or “fight dirty,” fight women (unless they attack him first), use weapons (again, unless they’re used against him first), or “dishonor” himself through sinful or licentious conduct. The conflict between his bigotry and his desire to be honorable seems never to have occurred to him.
The only thing in the world that means more to Green Dragon than fighting is his younger sister, Lin. He loves her very much, but expresses his love through a stifling overprotectiveness that’s beginning to really annoy her now that she’s an independent young woman. Her chosen career — actress — is scandalous and repugnant to him, and he’s doing everything he can to make her live a more “womanly” life. (His attitudes about women are just one of Green Dragon’s many “traditional” opinions; as Lin has observed, his views are “twelve thousand miles and two thousand years away!”)
Quote: <<“American dog! Now I will show you what true kung fu is!”>>
Powers/Tactics: Green Dragon has two qualities that make him a powerful fighter. The first is his strength; years of farm labor and heavy training have given him great lifting and hitting power. The second is his speed; Green Dragon is fast, faster than most superheroic martial artists. His training has emphasized Kung fu substyles that make the best use of his speed and strength, such as Bear, Dragon, and Shaolin Tiger. He’s studied many other substyles of Kung fu as well.
However, Green Dragon also has attributes
that hamper him in battle. Chief among these are his pride, anger, and impetuousness. Unlike other martial artists of similar power, he’s spent little time on “mystic foolery” such as ch’i abilities. His power and skill are essentially stagnating; he’s gone as far as he can go without delving into the more esoteric aspects of the martial arts, which he has neither the patience nor the discipline to do.
Green Dragon’s fighting tactics are fairly simple and straightforward. He attacks quickly and hard, hoping to take his opponent down easily. Only
if this proves unworkable does he resort to more advanced tactics such as acrobatic manuevering and tien-hsueh strikes. Due to his relatively low defenses, he often uses his Martial Dodge when facing foes with powerful attacks. His tactics are further circumscribed by his “honor,” as described above. He also has a tendency to announce his presence and make a brief, haughty speech before he attacks someone.


Campaign Use: Deng makes a great antagonist for a martial arts-oriented hero, particularly one of Western descent. As a Hunter, he’s not very imagi- native, simply attacking his foe at inconvenient moment or teaming up with other villains to cause him trouble.
If Green Dragon isn’t powerful enough for your campaign, boost his STR to superhuman levels
(he underwent ancient mystic Chinese rites to
get superpowers) and increase his defenses to just above campaign averages (and perhaps make part of them Resistant). If he’s too powerful, reduce his STR to 20, his DEX to 24, his SPD to 6, and get rid of some or all of his Extra DCs.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Green Dragon doesn’t like most people, and that goes double for Occidentals (particularly ones who presume to claim some sort of skill at the martial arts). He has “been insulted” by, and sometimes fought, such villains as Blackguard, Cheshire Cat, Esper, and Foxbat, and intends to get his revenge someday. (He particularly hates the Cat, who frequently mocks his fighting skills, and will most likely kill him if given the chance.)
Appearance: Green Dragon is 5’8” tall and weighs 175 pounds, most of it rock-solid muscle. He wears a costume colored light and dark green, with a “scale” pattern to it (like snakeskin). His mask is dark green, with two flares projecting outward across either side his face which are embroidered with gold and orange threads. The eyepieces of the mask are lined with a sort of transparent gauze that makes his eyes look like they’e solid white. The chest, arms, and legs of the costume are dark green; the gloves, boots, and trunks are lighter green.


GREEN DRAGON FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Green Dragon if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Green Dragon is a martial artist supervillain; he’s a master of the style of Kung Fu.
K/R: Green Dragon is Chinese and a hard-core anti- Western bigot. His real name is Chow Deng.
-1: Green Dragon is touchy and temperamental; he’s quick to take offense at perceived insults, particularly ones he thinks are directed at his honor.
-4: Green Dragon’s sister, Lin Chow, is an aspiring actress and a halfway decent martial artist in her own right.
-6: Green Dragon and Cheshire Cat are bitter rivals due to the Cat constantly insulting Green Dragon’s martial arts skills and his general Occidental idiocy.

GREEN DRAGON
4 Iron Skin Technique: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 8 PD 0 7 Leaping: Leaping +14m (18m forward, 9m upward) 1 6 Swift: Running +6m (18m total) 1
Talents
15 Danger Sense 12- (in combat)
Skills
16 +2 HTH
4 Dodging and Deflecting: +4 OCV with Block 0
Only To Block Ranged Physical Projectiles (-1) 3 Acrobatics 14-
3 Breakfall 14-
3 Climbing 14-
3 Contortionist 14-
3 Disguise 12-
3 Gambling (Dice Games, Poker) 12-
3 KS: Kung Fu 12-
2 KS: Chinese History And Culture 11-
2 KS: Chinese Healing 11-
1 Language: English (basic conversation; Mandarin Chinese
is Native)
3 Shadowing 12-
3 Stealth 14-
3 Streetwise 13-
4 TF: Common Motorized Ground Vehicles, Two-Wheeled
Motorized Ground Vehicles, Small Rowed Boats 7 WF: Common Melee Weapons, Common Martial Arts
Weapons, Hook Sword, Three-Section Staff, Wind And
Fire Wheels
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 183 Total Cost: 416
400 Matching Complications (75)
5 DNPC: Lin Chow (younger sister) (Infrequently, Normal; Useful Noncombat Skills)
10 Distinctive Features: Style (Not Concealable, Always Noticed And Recognizable, Detectable By Large Group)
15 Enraged: if honor insulted or hears an ethnic slur (Common), go 8-, recover 11-
15 Psychological Complication: Honorable (Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Disdain For Occidentals And Western Culture (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Chow Deng) (Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 16
Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
25 STR 27 DEX 18 CON
13 INT
14 EGO
18 PRE
15 34
14-
Lift 800 kg; 5d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 12-
PRE Attack: 31⁄2d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12 Total: 10 PD (8 rPD)
Total: 10 PD (0 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 233
18m 18m
10 OCV 35 9 DCV 30 4 OMCV 3 4 DMCV 3
7 SPD 10 PD
10 ED 10REC 6
35 END
15 BODY 5
40 STUN
Movement: Running:
Leaping:
Cost Powers
END
50
8
3 10
4 Block +2 4 Disarm -1 4 Dodge —
4 Escape +0
5 Flying Kick +1
3 Joint Lock/Grab -1 5 Kick -2 4 Knife Hand -2
3 Legsweep +2
4 Punch +0
3 Throw +0
4 Tien-hsueh Strike -1
4 Tiger/Dragon Claw +0
+2 +1 +5 +0 -2 -1 +1 +0 -1 +2 +1 +1 +0
Block, Abort
Disarm, 55 STR
Dodge all attacks, Abort 60 STR vs. Grabs
13d6 Strike
Grab, 55 STR
13d6 Strike
1d6+1 HKA (21⁄26 w/STR) 10d6 Strike, Target Falls 11d6 Strike
9d6 + v/10, Target Falls 4d6 NND (1)
13d6 Crush, Must Follow Grab
60 STR Shove
14- 8 13-
3 4 8
12- 12- 13-
8
Martial Arts: Kung Fu
Maneuver OCV DCV Notes
+0
Three-Section Staff, Wind And Fire Wheels
2 Stances: Multipower, 3-point reserve, all Cost END (-1⁄2) 1f 1) Cat Stance: +2 Lightning Reflexes 1
Costs END (-1⁄2)
1f 2) Crane Stance: +1 OCV with Block 1
Costs END (-1⁄2), Requires A DEX Roll (-1⁄2)
1f 3) Horse Stance: Knockback Resistance -2m 1
Costs END (-1⁄2)
1f 4) Phoenix Stance: +1 OCV with Block and Legsweep; 1
Costs END (-1⁄2), Requires A DEX Roll (-1⁄2)
1f 5) Tiger Stance: +1 with Tiger/Dragon Claw 1
4 Uproot/Sand Palm +0
16 +4 Damage Classes (already
7 Use Art with Blades, Clubs, Hook Sword, Polearms, Staff,
Costs END (-1⁄2)

