Background/History: Debra Kiser was a phsyics professor who studied the nature of energy in the hope of finding more efficient and cheaper ways of generating large amounts of it. Her goal wasn’t to make a lot of money from her discoveries (though she would have, if she’d succeeded), but instead
to benefit the whole world by reducing pollution and environment exploitation while still allowing society to progress.
Professor Kiser strove tirelessly toward her goal, putting in long hours. But then she spent one all-nighter too many at the lab and an accident occurred. She was re-adjusting one of her genera- tors for another test... but in her sleep-deprived state forgot to flip the safety switches first. The generator overloaded, flooding her body with raw energy. She passed out from the pain.
She woke up astonished that she was still alive. Most of her clothes had been charred to ashes and her body seemed to have a faint glow about it... but she was alive. She grabbed ahold of a table and pulled herself to her feet, then leaned against the table for a little while to catch her breath. Suddenly she noticed the table was glowing, too... and she got the instinctual feeling that it was now dangerous. She ran out the door on the other side of the lab, and just as she got there, the table deto- nated in a tremendous explosion that destroyed the lab.
Kiser realized, to her amazement, that she’d done that — she caused the explosion somehow. A crafty smile played over her face as the full import of that hit her. Hiding in the woods near the lab as the fire and rescue crews arrived to discover that she’d been “killed” in an explosion that “totally destroyed her body,” she was already planning her career as a supervillainess.
Personality/Motivation: The explosion that gave Grenadier her powers also affected her mind. She was once a caring, altruistic person who worked long hours with the ultimate goal of helping the world. Now she’s callous, cruel, self-centered, and almost totally lacking in compassion or sympathy. She’s only interested in what she can get for herself using her powers, and woe unto anyone who tries to stop her.
Quote: “I’ll put a bang in your evening you won’t soon forget if you don’t get out of my way.”

Powers/Tactics: Grenadier has the power to “charge” objects with energy and then place or throw them so the energy is released in an explo- sion. (The object used is destroyed by the explo- sion.) The power of the explosion depends on two factors: the size of the object she charges up; and the amount of time she spends charging it. Size
is the most important factor; she can’t exceed the size restriction no matter how long she spends charging an object, but has to spend more time charging a large object to obtain the full effect of using it.
For a typical 3 DC attack (Blast 3d6 or RKA 1d6), Grenadier needs an object with roughly
the size and/or mass of a 12 ounce beverage
can. For her full 30 DCs (Blast 30d6 or RKA 10d6) she needs an object at least the size and/
or mass of a mid-sized car. (The GM determines how damaging objects between those size/mass benchmarks can be.) She can charge and use an object with up to 10 DCs of effect (Blast 10d6 or RKA 3d6+1), or roughly one-third her maximum power, as a standard Attack Action. Charging and using objects for 11-15 DCs of damage requires a Full Phase Action. For every up to +3 DCs beyond 15 that she wants to do, she has to spend +1 Full Phase Action charging the object.
Grenadier can delay an object’s explosion by up to 30 seconds after she finishes charging the object. However, she has to decide to do this before she begins the charging process — her “default” is to charge an object and immediately throw it as an explosive missile.
Grenadier’s power only works on a single object at a time. She can’t pick up a handful of pebbles that weigh as much as a soda can and charge them for an RKA 1d6 attack; she can only charge one of the pebbles (an RKA 1 point at most).
Campaign Use: Grenadier is a typical mercenary supercriminal you can use any way you see fit. She’s fully capable of launching her own schemes, but also works well in groups (though only a fool trusts her completely).
To make Grenadier tougher, change her powers so that she can more quickly or easily charge up objects to do lots of damage. You could also give her the power to project some explosive blasts on her own, or a Resistant Protection “force-field:”
to raise her defenses. To weaken her, reduce her maximum DCs of damage from 30 to 20, and perhaps decrease her SPD to 4.
Appearance: Grenadier is a white female, 5’9”
tall with an athletic build and short black hair. Her reddish-pink costume consists of a one piece bathing suit-like top that leaves her neck and shoulders bare, has a vaguely heart-shaped cut-out on the stomach, and sleeves that end halfway down the upper arm, gloves and thigh-high boots in the same color, and a darker red half-face mask with vaguely fang-like downward projections.

GRENADIER FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Grenadier if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Grenadier is
a supervillainess who has the power to “charge” objects with energy; the object is then thrown or put in place and detonates like a bomb.
K/R: The larger the object Grenadier charges, the longer
it takes to charge
but the bigger the explosion. The maximum size explo- sion she’s known
to have generated released enough force to destroy most buildings if placed properly.
-1: Grenadier can delay the explosion of a charged object up to about thirty seconds.
-2: Grenadier can only charge a single object at a time, though she could charge multiple objects one at a time with delayed detona- tion so that they all exploded at once.
-10: Her Secret Identity is Debra Kiser; she used to be a physics professor who was supposedly killed (and her body obliterated) in a labo- ratory explosion.

Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
10 STR 20 DEX 18 CON 13 INT 10 EGO 15 PRE
0 20 8 3 0 5
11- 13- 13- 12- 11- 12-
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 3d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 13 PD (8 rPD)
Total: 18 ED (8 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 130
12m
7 OCV 20 7 DCV 20
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
5 SPD 30
5 PD
10 ED
6 REC 2 35END 3 10 BODY 0
GReNaDIeR
30 STUN
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
3 8
5
216 Object Charging: Multipower, 467-point reserve All OIF (objects of opportunity, see text; -1⁄2), Extra
Time (amount of time spent “charging” object affects how many DCs the attack can use, see text; -1⁄4), Limited Power (amount of DCs used depends on size of object used, see text; -1⁄4), Range Based On STR (-1⁄4), Side Effects (destroys object used as Focus; -0)
22f 1) Basic Charging: Blast 30d6 0
Area Of Effect (60m Radius Explosion; +3⁄4), Trigger (up to 30 seconds’ delay, activating Trigger takes no time, Trigger immediately automatically resets, see text; +1), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); common Limitations described above
22f 2) Intense Charging: RKA 10d6 0
Area Of Effect (60m Radius Explosion; +3⁄4), Trigger (up to 30 seconds’ delay, activating Trigger takes no time, Trigger immediately automatically resets, see text; +1), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); common Limitations described above
30 Energy-Absorbing Body: Energy Damage Reduction, Resistant, 50% 0 16 Armored Costume: Resistant Protection (8 PD/8 ED) 0
OIF (-1⁄2)
Skills
6 +2 with Object Charging Multipower
3 Computer Programming 12- 3 Deduction 12-
1 Electronics 8-
1 KS: The Scientific World 8- 2 SS: Chemistry 11-
2 SS: Particle Physics 11- 3 SS: Physics 12-
2 SS: Plasma Physics 11- 1 Security Systems 8-
3 Stealth 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 333 Total Cost: 463
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Hunted: the Champions (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Psychological Complication: Coldhearted And Greedy
(Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Debra Kiser)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 70 Experience Points: 68

