GROND FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Grond if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: Grond is
a monstrous, immensely strong, destructive supervillain. Most experts routinely describe him as the strongest being in the world (though Gargantua, Ripper, and Valak the World-Ravager can exceed his strength, at least temporarily).
K/R: His real name is Sydney Potter; he was a petty crook who was mutated into a monster as a result of a botched prison medical experi- ment and about five other strange coincidences all taking place in the same timeframe.
-4: Grond hates fire, largely because it causes him even more pain than most energy attacks, and usually avoids it or finds ways
to snuff it out
that don’t involve touching it (such as beating a fire-manipulating superhero to a pulp using a bus, small building, or other convenient object).
-8: Mental Blasts cause Grond immense pain... and usually lead to him attacking the person who just psionically zapped him.

Background/History: Three-time loser Sidney Potter figured he’d finally caught a break. The warden had asked for volunteers for some special medical experiments; anyone who participated would earn substantial “good conduct” reductions in his sentence. Sidney was more than willing to let a few eggheads poke him with needles if it meant he could get out of prison early.
Things didn’t quite work out. When he heard the medical technician say “Oops,” he began to panic. When he learned the tech had injected him with the wrong serum — some sort of reptile-derived immune factor booster instead of the experimental cold remedy — he became agitated and started to leave. The tech tried to stop him, and a struggle ensued. Sidney was thrown into a shelf-full of medicines and chemicals; dozens of sera and formulae entered his body through the cuts the glass bottles made. But he escaped, fighting his way past the guards with manic strength. Screaming with terror, he ran outside, right into the middle
of a thunderstorm. With the guards in hot pursuit, he dove right into a heavily polluted river... just as lightning struck!
No one ever saw Sidney Potter again. The prison officials assumed he’d drowned and his body had been washed downstream. They were unpleasantly surprised when, a few days later, a huge, green- skinned, four-armed monster calling himself “Grond” went on a rampage downtown. It took three teams of superheroes to stop him, and tests soon confirmed that this man-monster was once Sidney Potter. But no one could find a way to trans- form him back; they didn’t even understand how he’d been turned into Grond in the first place!
Grond has become a well-known member of the Superhuman World. Often tricked and manipu- lated by supervillains, he’s caused billions of dollars’ worth of property damage and hundreds of deaths. But somewhere, deep inside his tiny mind, Sidney Potter is still screaming to get out.
Personality/Motivation: Grond’s personality can
be summed up in two words: childish rage. He’s
got the tolerance for frustration of a four-year-old, combined with an almost constant state of anger that simply shifts focus from time to time. Unfortu- nately his lack of intelligence also makes him gull- ible; a clever supervillain can easily soothe him for a few minutes and then convince him to go smash something the villain wants smashed.
Grond doesn’t employ pronouns when referring to himself (or other people, usually), but instead uses his proper name (or theirs).
Quote: “Grraarrr!! Grond will hammer skinny human! No man is mightier than Grond!”
Powers/Tactics: Grond isn’t smart or clear-headed enough to have any real grasp of tactics; mostly he just smashes people who annoy him again and again until they stop moving or something distracts him. The closest he comes to a clever tactic is to Grab someone with two of his arms, then use his other two arms to pummel them while they’re at reduced DCV.
He avoids enemies with fire-based powers or attacks, which scare him and do extra damage to him; if necessary he snuffs out their flame (and possibly their lives) by hitting them with a large object.
Because he has four arms, Grond can get in
a lot more punches than most hand-to-hand fighters do. This is represented by his Four-Armed Combatant power. At the beginning of each Turn, the GM should make the Activation Roll. If the roll succeeds, it means events work out that Turn for Grond to get in a couple of extra punches — give him two additional Phases (either shift his Phases in Segments 3 and 9 to 2 and 8, and make the new Phases 4 and 10, or simply choose the two extra Phases randomly). If Grond’s two extra arms are somehow disabled, or he uses them to Grab a target, he can’t use this power.
Campaign Use: Grond is a “cannon fodder” villain, intended simply to give the PCs a tough fight. In the event he can’t, you can increase his power by giving him Damage Reduction (on the other hand, if he’s too tough for your game, reduce his STR, CON, and defenses until he’s at a proper level of power). However, a clever GM might weave some interesting stories around Grond — make him a monster deserving of sympathy and help, rather than simply a force of nature for the PCs to defeat and restrain. Treated properly, and with increased INT and EGO, it’s even possible Grond could one day become a hero.
The US Army’s Project Greenskin pursues and studies Grond; see CU 112 for details.
Grond receives fewer points for his Social Complication (Public Identity) than normal, because he’s a full-time (and mindless) supervil- lain. The fact that it’s easy to find out his real name doesn’t usually inconvenience him much.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Grond has no friends, only people who exploit him or try to hurt him. He would like to have a friend.
Grond’s biggest supervillain rival in the minds of many is VIPER’s ultra-powerful minion Ripper. In 2007 VIPER tricked Grond into destroying the PRIMUS headquarters in Los Angeles; when he realized he’d been tricked and went after VIPER, the snakes sent Ripper to deal with him. The fight, which destroyed over a dozen city blocks, ended inconclusively, though in the eyes of many Ripper scored a win on points by snapping off half of Grond’s right horn. Grond is determined to destroy Ripper the next time they meet.
Appearance: Grond is one of the most terrifying- looking villains in the Champions Universe. Twelve feet tall and massively muscled, he has dark green skin blotched in a few places with lighter green- or orange-glowing radiation burn-like pustules or scabs. His bald head has two large, downward- pointing horns (the right one of which was snapped off halfway up during a confrontation with Ripper in 2007), as well as two smaller ones projecting from just behind his cheeks. Even more impres- sively, he has four large arms, with only two fingers and a thumb on each hand. (He also has only two toes on each foot.) The only clothes he wears are the tattered remains of a pair of brownish-red pants.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
Skills
32 +4 HTH
17 Brick Tricks 20-
9 Hoist 16-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 333 Total Cost: 710
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Distinctive Features: big, ugly mutated green body (Not Concealable, Causes Extreme Reaction [abject fear])
35 Enraged: Berserk when realizes he’s been tricked, or thinks he’s been tricked (Common), go 11-, recover 8-
20 Hunted: the Champions (Infrequently, As Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, As Pow, NCI, Capture)
10 Physical Complication: Big And Heavy (is always 12 feet
tall and weighs approximately 1,000 kg; +2 OCV for others to hit, +2 to PER Rolls for others to perceive) (Infrequently; Slightly Impairing)
25 Psychological Complication: Childishly Naive And Prone To Tantrums (Very Common, Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Hatred Of Fire (Common, Strong)
5 Social Complication: Public Identity (Sydney Potter) (Occasionally, Minor)
10 Unluck 2d6
10 Vulnerability: 11⁄2 x STUN from Mental Blasts (Common) 10 Vulnerability: 11⁄2 x STUN from Fire Attacks (Common) Total Complications Points: 75
Experience Points: 310
90 STR 80 27- 18 DEX 16 13- 50 CON 40 19- 5 INT -5 10- 8 EGO -2 11- 30 PRE 20 15-
6 OCV 15 6 DCV 15 3 OMCV 0 3 DMCV 0
Lift 25 ktons; 18d6 HTH damage [9]
4 SPD 40 PD
20
PER Roll 10- PRE Attack: 6d6
Phases: 3, 6, 9, 12 Total: 40 PD (40 rPD)
Total: 30 ED (30 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 377
30 ED
40 REC
100 END 16 30 BODY 20
100 STUN
Movement: Running:
Leaping: Swimming:
Cost Powers
12m 60m 24m
38 28 36
40
21 Horns: HKA 2d6
Armor Piercing (+1⁄4); Inaccurate (1⁄2 OCV; -1⁄4), No STR Bonus (-1⁄2)
END
3
22 Can Fight All Day: Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
for 90 STR 0 3 Hit Annoying Little Man Harder: +10 STR 5
Increased Endurance Cost (x5 END; -2)
2 Hit Annoying Little Man Really Hard: +10 STR 10
Increased Endurance Cost (x10 END; -4)
18 Stratospheric Punch: Double Knockback (+1⁄2) for
up to 90 STR 12
Increased Endurance Cost (x3 END; -1), Requires A Brick Tricks Roll (-1⁄2)
17 Super-Tough Body: Hardened (+1⁄4) for 40 PD/30 ED
17 Super-Tough Body: Impenetrable (+1⁄4) for 40 PD/30 ED 0 52 Super-Tough Body: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 40 PD/30 ED 0
Hardened (+1⁄4), Impenetrable (+1⁄4) 40 Super-Tough Body: Damage Negation
(-5 DCs Physical, -3 DCs Energy) 0 4 Super-Strong Lungs: Life Support
(Extended Breathing: 1 END per 20 Minutes) 0 56 Super-Leaping: Leaping +56m (60m forward, 30m
upward) 6
MegaScale (1m = 1 km, leap takes 1 Phase per km; +1) 10 Super-Strong Swimmer: Swimming +20m (24m total) 0
6 Four Arms: Extra Limbs (2) 0
Inherent (+1⁄4)
7 Four-Armed Combatant: +2 SPD 2
Activation Roll 11- (-1), Costs Endurance (-1⁄2), Only To Punch (-1)

