Background/History: Phil Hernandez was a security guard working at a think tank’s laboratory who had the misfortune to be on duty the
night that Fleshtone decided to rob the
place. Fleshtone decided to have some
fun and “play” with him. Using his
biokinetic powers, he literally “melted” Hernandez down and “resculpted” him
into a grotesque mockery of the human
form. Then he took what he wanted
from the lab and left Hernandez to die.
GROTESK
Val Char Cost Roll Notes
But Hernandez didn’t die. Although now horribly mis-shapen, he soon found himself growing stronger and tougher. He got up and lumbered out of the lab, smashing through several heavy tables in the process. He thought about going for help, but then he realized no one could help him. He was a freak, a horrible ugly Grotesk thing, and no one was going to help him but himself.


GROTESK FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Grotesk if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Grotesk is a super-strong, super- tough, hideously ugly supervillain.
K/R: His real name is Phil Hernandez; he got his powers from being flesh- warped by the villain Fleshtone.
-1: Grotesk has the ability to make beautiful people temporarily ugly by touching them.
-6: Grotesk isn’t really that villainous, just confused, depressed, angry, and even frightened; it might be possible to transform him into a hero if his problems could be addressed.


Val Char Cost Roll Notes
But Hernandez didn’t die. Although now horribly mis-shapen, he soon found himself growing stronger and tougher. He got up and lumbered out of the lab, smashing through several heavy tables in the process. He thought about going for help, but then he realized no one could help him. He was a freak, a horrible ugly Grotesk thing, and no one was going to help him but himself.
60 STR 50 21- 18 DEX 16 13- 40 CON 30 17- 10 INT 0 11- 10 EGO 0 11- 20 PRE 10 13-
6 OCV 15 6 DCV 15 3 OMCV 0 3 DMCV 0 5 SPD 30
35 PD 33 35 ED 33 20 REC 16 80 END 12 25 BODY 15 90 STUN 35
Movement: Running: Leaping:
Cost Powers
Lift 100 tons; 12d6 HTH damage [6]
PER Roll 11- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 35 PD (35 rPD)
Total: 35 ED (35 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 310
13 Touch Of Ugliness: Drain Striking Apperance 2d6 No Range (-1⁄2)
10 Frightful Hideousness: +20 PRE
Only For Fear-Based Presence Attacks (-1)
35 Resilient: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 35 PD/35 ED
10 Strong Leaper: Leaping +20m (24m forward, 12m
upward)
Skills
32 +4 HTH
2 PS: Security Guard 11- 13 Power: Brick Tricks 18- 3 Stealth 13-
1 Streetwise 8-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 119 Total Cost: 429
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Hunted: New Paladins (Infrequently, Mo Pow, Capture) 25 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Psychological Complication: Feels Cut Off From
2 0
0 1
Humanity; Has To Fend For Himself (Common, Strong) 15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Phil Hernandez)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 65 Experience Points: 39


Personality/Motivation: Grotesk no longer feels any real connection with the rest of humanity. The changes wreaked upon his body by Fleshtone have left him something less than human, something no right-thinking person would ever want to be around. So, he’s got to fend for himself, and that usually means stealing what he needs to survive (since he can’t hold a job), committing super- crimes on his own or as some master villain’s hire- ling. He’ll do whatever it takes to build a halfway- decent life for himself.
Quote: “I nah ha’ as ug-y as you be whe I ge duh bea’ing you.” (Grotesk rarely speaks, and never for long; the changes in his physical form make it hard for him to pronounce many sounds.)
Powers/Tactics: Grotesk possesses superhuman strength and resilience. Scientists working for PRIMUS have theorized that whatever Fleshtone did to him somehow triggered a latent mutation or the like (though he doesn’t register as a mutant to mutant-detecting technology), or perhaps that simultaneous exposure to chemicals in the think tank lab altered him somehow. Additionally, he somehow “inherited” a tiny fraction of Fleshtone’s powers — by touch he can temporarily make a person much uglier.
Grotesk’s tactics aren’t very subtle or sophis- ticated. He usually charges in, roaring at the top of his lungs, and attacks the biggest, toughest opponent he can find. He relies a lot on Presence Attacks in addition to raw STR, since he knows how frightening his appearance is.
Campaign Use: Grotesk isn’t truly villainous; he’s just somewhat unhinged and deeply depressed because of what’s happened to him. If a hero found a way to cure him, or at least to improve his outlook on life, it might be possible to turn him around and put him on the heroic path.
To make Grotesk more powerful, give him a Multipower of “brick tricks” he can perform at will. Stick to relatively simple ones involving raw power, like Shockwave and Thunderclap; those are more his style than “finesse” applications of super- strength. To weaken him, reduce his SPD to 4 and Running to 8m.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Grotesk is eager for revenge on Fleshtone and will do his best to track down any clue to the biokinetic fiend’s location.
Appearance: Grotesk is a horrible mockery who looks like a human body that’s been melted down and then vaguely put back together (which is pretty much exactly what happened to him). His facial features are melted and warped, his heavily- muscled body hunchbacked and lumpy, his limbs slightly disproportionate here and there. His “costume” is a pair of tattered Army green pants.

