Background/History: Edwina Baldwin wanted revenge. She thought she was so lucky — a
poor girl from a Blackpool slum getting a rich boyfriend who promised her the moon and the stars. So what if his business wasn’t quite legal? Then she got pregnant and wouldn’t have an abor- tion. Her boyfriend dumped her. When she threat- ened to reveal all in a paternity suit, he sent two goons to break her kneecaps. She realized she had never been his lover — only his whore. After that, she didn’t see much point in fighting back. She had her baby, tried not to resent the child because of her father, and went on the dole. But she could hardly get a good job with a baby, parents who’d disowned her, and one leg that hadn’t healed right.
Then Edwina saw an ad for “domestic servants” that included the curious proviso, “Applicants must be desperate.” Sinister, yes, but that described her. She applied and found a job as cook for a lady of great eccentricity... and power. The master alche- mist Zarrindokht wanted servants who would not talk to outsiders. To obtain discreet and loyal help, a little thing like child care and an alchemical cure for a crippled leg was a small price to pay.
Edwina proved an eager and loyal servant, always trying to become more useful. She saw Zarrindokht as part employer, part surrogate mother. Zarrindokht noticed Edwina’s diligence and promoted her to lab assistant. Now she washed bottles, ground minerals, and performed other basic tasks. After four years, Zarrindokht promoted her again — to minion. She enchanted Edwina so she could assume the form of a super- strong bird-woman, a classic harpy. Edwina
went on missions throughout the Inner Planes, collecting rare materials for Zarrindokht’s alchemy.
In a rare moment of generosity, Zarrindokht offered to destroy Edwina’s ex-lover as a perk
for five years of good service. Edwina asked if she could do it herself and the alchemist agreed. Edwina spent a week trashing her ex-lover’s little empire of drugs, loansharking, and corruption before dropping him off the roof of a skyscraper.
Unfortunately, Edwina attracted the attention of the police and a local superhero. Both located her “home territory” — the neighborhood where Zarrindokht kept her sanctum. Regretfully, the alchemist suggested Edwina leave her employ:
She knew Edwina would not want to give up the power she’d tasted, but she’d made herself too visible. Eventually the police would follow her to Zarrindokht’s door. As “severance pay,” Zarrin- dokht taught her how to make the potions she needed to turn into the Harpy and back again. The alchemist also gave Edwina a list of names of other mystics who might offer her work.
Since then, the Harpy has worked as a merce- nary for a number of mystics and assorted supervillains and criminal agencies. She doesn’t enjoy crime, but she wants money to support her daughter. A lot of money, so her child will never know the privations she endured.

Personality/Motivation: Harpy isn’t a bad person, but a hard life left her with little sympathy for others. She believes she must be a supervillainess to survive and provide for her daughter. She’s also husband-hunting among the supervillains she works with. Edwina only cares about the money: she’ll switch sides if someone offers her more money, and would not be a good person to leave as sole guard for a large heist’s profits. Losing
her daughter is her greatest fear, so so she won’t knowingly risk death or capture for the sake of a robbery or another villain.
Harpy doesn’t hurt anyone more than she has to... except for criminals who take advantage of desperate women, such as pimps and loan sharks. She also hates men who abuse women. She enjoys dropping people like that from great heights.
Quote: “Don’t fight, and I won’t hurt you. This is just business.”
Powers/Tactics: By drinking a potion (itself carrying only a little magic), Edwina can become the Harpy. She needs a second potion to change back into human form before the normal 24 hours of effect are complete. As Harpy, Edwina is super- strong and quick, resistant to small arms fire, and able to fly. (She doesn’t take an OIAID Limitation on her superhuman Characteristics and Powers because there’s no chance she could revert to her much weaker Human identity in the middle of a fight, or ruin her Secret Identity by accidentally changing into Harpy form.)
HARPY FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Harpy if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: Harpy is a supervillainess who resembles the mythical bird-woman; she’s super-strong, can fly, and has sharp, powerful talons.
K/R: She’s also skilled at buffeting foes with her wings; she can hit several at once if they get too close to her.
-1: Harpy is mostly a mercenary supervillain, and seems to favor employers from the Mystic World, but sometimes pulls a robbery or other job on her own.
-2: Harpy seems to hate men who abuse or exploit women; several of her crimes are unprovoked attacks on men who only have that attribute in common.
-4: Drugs and poisons seem to have an unusually strong effect on Harpy.
-8: Exposure to even mildly toxic chemicals causes Harpy pain.
-10: Her Secret Identity is Edwina Baldwin.

Harpy can punch normally, but can also batter opponents with her wings and rake them with her claws. Her favorite tactic is to perform a Grab on a slow-moving opponent and fly up high. Then Harpy drops her victim and flies back to the fight. Squeezing is optional: when Harpy fights as part of a group, just getting an opponent out of the fight for a few Phases matters more.
Campaign Use: The Harpy is a straightforward villainess for hire, given a small mystical twist. Her powers are more physical than most char- acters in the Mystic World; her chief defense against mystical attacks is simply her high STUN. On the other hand, her mystical connections may draw regular superheroes and villains into meetings with the Mystic World. She could easily join GRAB or a similar group of “just in it for the money” super-robbers.
To make Harpy more powerful, increase her SPD and/or expand the scope of her Combat Skill Levels. She could also learn Martial Arts maneu- vers such as Martial Grab, Flying Grab, Choke Hold, or Crush, so she can grapple more effec- tively. To make Harpy a less powerful opponent, reduce her STR and claw damage.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: As a merce- nary supervillainess, Harpy has mostly worked for denizens of the Mystic World. Various druids of the Circle of the Scarlet Moon have been her most frequent employers, and she’s on good terms with that organization as a whole. She thinks that some of the higher-ranking male members might make acceptable husband material. She’s also worked for DEMON, but finds most Morbanes at least a little disturbing. Black Paladin and Zorran the Artificer have also hired her services from time to time.
Appearance: Edwina Baldwin is a woman in
her early thirties standing 5’3” tall; she has fair skin, delicate features, and red-blonde hair. As Harpy, she’s visibly stronger and gains red-blonde feathered wings and birdlike legs with large talons. Her rather scant costume is metallic golden, with scarlet feathers edging her gloves. When she expects to act as Harpy, she sweeps her hair back into two points with hairspray.

Val Char Cost
50 STR 23 DEX 25 CON
13 INT
14 EGO
20 PRE
Roll
40
26 14- 15 14-
10
Notes
Lift 25 tons; 10d6 HTH damage [5]
8 OCV 25 8 DCV 25 3 OMCV 0 5 DMCV 6
5 SPD 27 PD
30
25
23 ED
15 REC 11 50END 6 16 BODY 6 50 STUN 15
Movement: Running: Flight:
Cost Powers
21
3
4 12-
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 27 PD (7 rPD)
Total: 23 ED (5 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 268
12m 40m
HaRPY
19-
12- 13-
12 Tireless Strength: Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
on 50 STR 0 30 Talons: HKA 2d6 (5d6+1 with STR) 1
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Reduced Penetration (-1⁄4)
33 Wing Swat: Blast 6d6 3
Area Of Effect (1m Radius; +1⁄4), Penetrating (+1⁄2), Personal Immunity (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); No Range (-1⁄2), Restrainable (-1⁄2)
6 Enchanted Toughness: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 7 PD/5 ED 0 37 Wings: Flight 40m, x4 Noncombat 2
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Restrainable (-1⁄2)
9 Falcon Eyes: +6 versus Range Modifer for Sight Group 0
Skills
6 +3 OCV with Move By
2 KS: Alchemy 11-
2 KS: The Mystic World 11-
2 Navigation (Air) 12-
3 Power: Brick Tricks 19-
3 Shadowing 12-
3 Streetwise 13-
1 WF: Pistols
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 149 Total Cost: 417
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Accidental Change: to Human identity after 24 hours (Uncommon, Always)
15 DNPC: Jennifer (daughter) (Infrequently, Incompetent) 20 Physical Complication: need potions to change form
controllably (Infrequently; Fully Impairing)
20 Psychological Complication: Terrified of Capture Or
Weakness (Very Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Hates Pimps, Loan Sharks,
And Abusers (Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Mercenary (Common,
Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Edwina Baldwin)
(Frequently, Major)
15 Susceptibility: to mildly toxic chemicals, take 1d6
damage per Turn of exposure (Common)
10 Vulnerability: 11⁄2 x STUN from Drug/Poison Attacks
(Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 17

