Background/History: When bad things happen to good people, sometimes they stop being so good. William Wade felt himself deeply wronged. He’d lost his job, property, family, and good name. He had some idea who was responsible, but he couldn’t do a damn thing — the wheels
of law need money and influence to grease them. William Wade had none; the people
who ruined him had plenty. And no one would believe anything bad about people who seemed so respectable, who supported the right causes and went to church on Sunday. Just as he went to church, singing praise to a loving God who wouldn’t let him down. Now he was down, down in a dumpster, rooting among the garbage for something halfway edible.
Nothing. The night would be cold. The shelter closed for good a month before — no money. If Wade didn’t find food and a warm corner, soon he’d be down about six feet further.
Dusk found Wade crossing a long bridge. He stopped halfway across to rest, and looked down at the black water far below. Cars hurtled past, oblivious. Freezing, starving, worthless, and hope- less — William Wade lifted his eyes to the grimy clouds, cursed God, and swung a leg up to the concrete railing.
“You don’t really want to do that,” said the slender man who stood beside him. Slowly, Wade swung his leg back down. “That’s right,” the man said. “You don’t want to die now, accepting defeat. Tell me what you really want.”
Wade gawped. “Where’d you come from?”
“Around,” the man said with an airy wave. The cufflinks on his maroon silk suit were enormous rubies. “Travelling to and fro over the Earth. Now tell me — so you know it yourself — what you really want, more than life itself, more than your... well, more than anything. Tell me.” And the man’s eyes blazed, brighter and hotter than the rubies.
Did he want his money back? His family? His old life? A new life? “Revenge!”
The man smiled, showing very sharp, very white teeth. “Ah. Revenge is one of my specialties. Let’s make a deal.”
The agreement was simple. The stranger provided certain tools; Wade could use them for
a year. If Wade killed the six who wronged and ruined him, the stranger would see that Wade regained everything he had lost, with no further obligation for the rest of his life. If Wade failed,
at the end of the year he must recompense the stranger with everything he had. “Everything,”
the stranger said. “You know what I mean.” Wade said he did. He signed the contract and they shook hands.
A derelict walked onto the bridge. The Hell Rider rode off. Off to the hunt. The stranger smiled again, thinking of the sport to come.

Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
25 STR 24 DEX 23 CON
13 INT
14 EGO
20 PRE
15 28 13
3
4 10
14- 14- 14- 12- 12- 13-
Lift 800 kg; 5d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 Total: 21 PD (10 rPD)
Total: 21 ED (10 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 215
35 Spiked Gauntlets, Boots, Kneeplates: HA +6d6 0 Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END;
+1⁄2); Hand-To-Hand Attack (-1⁄4), OIAID (-1⁄4)
24 Demon Armor: Resistant Protection (10 PD/10 ED) 0
OIAID (-1⁄4)
7 Forged In Hell: Resistant Protection (0 PD/8 ED) 0
OIAID (-1⁄4), Only Works Against Fire/Heat Attacks (-1⁄2)
17 Immolating Armor: RKA 1d6 1
Area Of Effect (personal Surface — Damage Shield; +1⁄4), Constant (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); OIAID (-1⁄4), No Range (-1⁄2)
7 Scary-Looking Armor: +15 PRE 0 OIAID (-1⁄4), Only For Fear-Based Presence Attacks (-1)
10 Guarded Will: Mental Defense (10 points) 0 5 Guarded Life And Powers: Power Defense (5 points) 0
Perks
57 Brimstone: Follower (demon steed built on 287 Total Points)
Skills
20 +4 with Shifting Weapon Multipower 3 Breakfall 14-
3 Interrogation 13-
2 KS: Financial World 11-
3 PS: Investment Broker 12-
3 Riding 14-
3 Streetwise 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 260 Total Cost: 475
400 Matching Complications (75)
10 Distinctive Features: Aura of Demon Magic (Not Concealable; Always Noticed; Only With Unusual Senses)
15 Hunted: FBI (Infrequently, As Pow, NCI)
15 Hunted: Mephistopheles (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Watching)
20 Psychological Complication: Hunting The Six (Very
Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Fear Of Capture (Common,
Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (William Wade)
(Frequently, Major)
20 Susceptibility: to holy water, symbols, or ground, 1d6
damage per Phase of contact (Common)
10 Susceptibility: to anti-magical Adjustment attacks, takes
2d6 damage instantly (Uncommon)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 75
8 OCV 25 8 DCV 25 3 OMCV 0 5 DMCV 6
6 SPD 11 PD
40
9
11 ED 10REC 6 45END 5 16 BODY 6
HELL RIDER
42 STUN
Movement: Running:
11
Flight: Teleportation:
Cost Powers
12m 30m 15m
9
39 Shifting Weapon: Multipower, 69-point reserve All OIAID (-1⁄4), Restrainable (-1⁄2)
3f 1) Axe: HKA 3d6 (41⁄2d6 with STR)
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); OIAID (-1⁄4),
Restrainable (-1⁄2)
3f 2) Sword: HKA 2d6 (3d6 with STR)
Penetrating (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); OIAID (-1⁄4), Restrainable (-1⁄2)
2
2
3f 3) Mace: HKA 2d6 (3d6 with STR) 2 +3 Increased STUN Multiplier (+3⁄4), Reduced Endur-
ance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); OIAID (-1⁄4), Restrainable (-1⁄2)
3f 4) Whip: Drain STR 3d6 2
Delayed Return Rate (points return at the rate of 5 per Minute; +1), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); OIAID (-1⁄4), Limited Ranged (8m; -1⁄4), Restrainable (-1⁄2)
3f 5) Space-Cutting Scythe I: Teleportation 38m, No Rela-
tive Velocity 6
Safe Blind Teleport (+1⁄4); OIAID (-1⁄4), Restrainable (-1⁄2)
4f 6) Space-Cutting Scythe II: Teleportation 15m, No Rela-
tive Velocity 7
Safe Blind Teleport (+1⁄4), MegaScale (1m = 100 km; +11⁄2); OIAID (-1⁄4), Restrainable (-1⁄2)
3f 7) Brimstone Sling: Sight Group Flash 6d6 2
Area Of Effect (1m Radius; +1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); OIAID (-1⁄4), Restrainable (-1⁄2)

Personality/Motivation: Hell Rider is driven by revenge against the people who ruined his life. He hates them so much he mortgaged his soul to the archdevil Mephistopheles, the Prince of Lies. William Wade wasn’t a ruthless man before, and he cannot yet casually murder people who incon- veniently get in his way, but he’s learning. Hell Rider fights with hysterical fury when he must, preferably from the back of his demonic steed, but if he can think of a way to reach his quarry without fighting along the way, he’ll try it.
Will Hell Rider lose his remaining scruples and become a cold-blooded killer? Or will he hold onto his conscience, and maybe even renounce his deal with the Devil? That is for time, the GM, and the heroes to decide.
Quote: “I don’t want to kill you — but if you try to stop me, I’ll see you in Hell!”
Powers/Tactics: Hell Rider’s powers and weapons derive from a demonic gift given to him by Mephistopheles. To invoke them, he must take
a Full Phase Action, make devil-horns with his hands, cross his arms across his chest, and say
the words that open the gates of Hell: “Zazas, Zazas, Nasatanada, Zazas!” This also summons Brimstone, his infernal horse (use the Demon Steed character sheet from HSB 100). If the heroes knock Hell Rider unconscious, they can take away his weapon and armor, but these vanish from storage as soon as William Wade leaves his Hell Rider identity and reappear with him when Wade becomes Hell Rider again.
Hell Rider attacks with a shape-shifting, demon-forged weapon. He frequently changes its form and powers in battle for best tactical advan- tage. The scythe form cuts flaming tears in space that he can run or ride through. Enemies can take the weapon from Hell Rider’s hand, but he can summon it back instantly (however, he cannot use it if Entangled, Grabbed, or otherwise restrained).

He can also punch or kick with his spiked gaunt- lets, boots, or knees. Hell Rider’s armor radiates red heat, and its grotesque styling makes him look more intimidating.
Hell Rider tries to reach his target as quickly as possible, kill him, then teleport away, evading or bypassing other opponents if possible. Killing Damage and Entangles (or other restraints) make Hell Rider cautious, since capture or long-term incapacity can lose him his bet. He trusts his Space-Cutting Scythe to get him out of any other danger once he completes a murder.
Campaign Use: Not every villain needs to become a life-long adversary for the heroes. Hell Rider has an expiration date: either he succeeds in killing his six victims within one year, or he goes to Hell. This also means Hell Rider cannot simply lay low and wait for a better chance to advance his goals. (Of course, you can always extend the deadline if need be.) Once the PCs realize Hell Rider wants to kill certain individuals, they’re under pressure to find and save those people. Hell Rider’s victims range from innocent businessmen who had no idea they were part of his ruin, to financial predators with their own crimes to hide, which can add a layer
of noir-ish moral ambiguity to a story arc. If you want to really complicate the heroes’ lives, make one of the six Franklin Stone (see CV1).
If Hell Rider needs to be more powerful — which may be necessary if he’s to take on all the PCs by himself — give him some Damage Reduc- tion (and increase his other defenses), increase the strength of his Shifting Weapon Multipower, and boost his SPD by 2. If he’s too powerful, make his Shifting Weapon an actual Focus (so heroes can take it away from him).
If the players enjoy their clashes with Hell Rider, you can arrange a sequel no matter what happens when William Wade’s pact expires. If Hell Rider kills the Six, perhaps his patron lets him keep his powers: Wade has damned himself anyway through his murders, and the Prince of Lies figures he will continue to work evil. If Hell Rider fails, or dies, the archdevil can send him back from the Netherworld as a demonic assassin.
Appearance: Hell Rider wears spiky, gothically ornate armor of red and golden metal, with the breastplate tooled into the design of a cruel, demonic face. His helm’s visor covers his upper face but leaves his lower face exposed. His Shifting Weapon (which can transform into sword, axe, mace, whip, or other weapons as he chooses) seems to be made of black iron bound in gold; it emits a puff of flame when it hits. When not acting as Hell Rider, William Wade dresses in plain but respectable clothes purchased at thrift shops.
Personality/Motivation: Hell Rider is driven by revenge against the people who ruined his life. He hates them so much he mortgaged his soul to the archdevil Mephistopheles, the Prince of Lies. William Wade wasn’t a ruthless man before, and he cannot yet casually murder people who incon- veniently get in his way, but he’s learning. Hell Rider fights with hysterical fury when he must, preferably from the back of his demonic steed, but if he can think of a way to reach his quarry without fighting along the way, he’ll try it.
Will Hell Rider lose his remaining scruples and become a cold-blooded killer? Or will he hold onto his conscience, and maybe even renounce his deal with the Devil? That is for time, the GM, and the heroes to decide.
Quote: “I don’t want to kill you — but if you try to stop me, I’ll see you in Hell!”
Powers/Tactics: Hell Rider’s powers and weapons derive from a demonic gift given to him by Mephistopheles. To invoke them, he must take
a Full Phase Action, make devil-horns with his hands, cross his arms across his chest, and say
the words that open the gates of Hell: “Zazas, Zazas, Nasatanada, Zazas!” This also summons Brimstone, his infernal horse (use the Demon Steed character sheet from HSB 100). If the heroes knock Hell Rider unconscious, they can take away his weapon and armor, but these vanish from storage as soon as William Wade leaves his Hell Rider identity and reappear with him when Wade becomes Hell Rider again.
Hell Rider attacks with a shape-shifting, demon-forged weapon. He frequently changes its form and powers in battle for best tactical advan- tage. The scythe form cuts flaming tears in space that he can run or ride through. Enemies can take the weapon from Hell Rider’s hand, but he can summon it back instantly (however, he cannot use it if Entangled, Grabbed, or otherwise restrained).
HELL RIDER FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Hell Rider if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Hell Rider is a supervillain who’s some sort of demonic assassin. He wields a weapon that changes shape and powers at will, and rides a demonic steed.
-6: Exposure to holy water, symbols, or ground causes Hell Rider pain.
-8: Hell Rider suffers pain when subjected to Adjustment Powers that affect magic.
-10: His Secret Identity is William Wade; he used to be an investment broker before he was financially ruined.

