HORNET FACTS
Here are some facts characters and
NPCs might know about Hornet if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Hornet is a supervillain with insect powers, including a “sting” touch, a “sting blast,” and a “chrysalis blast” that wraps
his foe up in sticky tendrils. He also has the faceted eyes of an insect.
K/R: Hornet can grow insect-like wings and fly, and can shrink to the size of an insect.
-4: One of Hornet’s schemes created the supervillain Dragonfly, who now wants to kill him.
-8: Chemicals, drugs, and poisons are particularly effective against Hornet due to his human-insect metabolism.
-10: His Secret Iden- tity is Gerald Byrne; he’s an entomologi

Background/History: After watching his mother die slowly of cancer, Gerald Byrne was determined to find some way to keep that sort of tragedy from affecting others. He began to study medicine, but an interest in entomology eventually sidetracked him into becoming a research biologist instead of a doctor.
One day, he heard about a tribe of Indians in the Amazon Jungle that suffered from almost no diseases because of their diet, which included several types of unusual insects. Intrigued, and thinking perhaps he might yet find the cure for cancer he’d always sought, Byrne journeyed deep into Amazon to find this tribe and learn if the rumors were true.
Before he encountered the tribe, he came to a strange clearing in the jungle filled with mounds that looked like crosses between the nests of wasps and termites. Intrigued, he investigated, only to arouse the inhabitants. A bizarre form of flying insect, unlike anything he’d ever seen before, swarmed out of the mounds and began stinging him. Crazed with pain and fear, he ran until he came to a spring, then dove in and remained submerged until the bugs flew away.
By the time he crawled out of the spring, he was already feeling ill. The next several days were a blur of pain and misery. Finally, his symptoms began to subside, and with them much of his humanity ebbed away as well. Somehow the insects’ venom had transformed Byrne into a man-insect hybrid. He no longer felt sympathy or compassion; now he regretted all his attempts to help others, and decided the world owed him for all his efforts. Returning to civilization, he became the Hornet, a fearsome costumed criminal.
Over the years since he first joined the Super- human World, to his simultaneous fascination and concern, Hornet’s body has continued to mutate, slowly but surely. This has made him even more powerful in some ways (such as his new Chrysalis Blast), but part of him is concerned that the muta- tions may continue until he’s some sort of hideous, six-limbed bug-man. Part of him doesn’t care.
Personality/Motivation: Hornet is filled with a bitterness, hatred, and rage whose causes he can’t fully articulate (primarily because they come from his half-insect nature, not any legitimate griev- ance). He feels he’s been taken advantage of and abused, and that he’s entitled to hurt people and steal to make up for it. He doesn’t take any respon- sibility for bad things that happen to him, or even just shrug them off as unlucky breaks; he finds a way to blame someone for his every misfortune.
At times (particulary in battle), Hornet’s general loathing for humanity takes control of him, making him lash out with his most powerful attacks. Once or twice he’s ruined an employer’s plans by succumbing in to these impulses,
giving him a poor reputation in the supervillain community.

Quote: “Not bugging you, am I?”
Powers/Tactics: Ordinarily, Gerald Byrne looks like an ordinary person. When he activates his powers, he unleashes his “insect nature” and becomes a half-human, half-insect hybrid. His skin becomes hard and chitinous, his eyes bulge out and become multifaceted, and insect-like wings sprout from his shoulderblades when he wants to fly. As the Hornet, he can fly, shrink down to insect size, “sting” his enemies by touch or from a distance, or encase his foes in a cocoon- like substance. His other insectile powers include the ability to see all around him, detect minute changes in air patterns that alert him to danger, and cling to walls and ceilings. Unfortunately, his altered metabolism is much more susceptible to chemical weapons, including drugs and poisons, than a normal human’s.
Hornet prefers to remain in the air during combat and attack with his Sting Blast and Chrysalis Blast; he’ll only get close to his enemies if he has to use his Sting. He usually activates his Shrinking as well, though he has to be careful because of the extra Knockback he might take. If fighting in a group, he keeps an eye on the entire battlefield with his 360 Degree vision, and alerts his teammates to potential surprise attacks.
Campaign Use: The Hornet is a useful mercenary villain for some scenarios, but can also serve as the main villain of a story if you give him the resources he needs to take on an entire team (like a horde of giant insects). This Hornet is not related in any way to the Hornet, the infamous superhero active in New York City during the Sixties and Seventies, but you could design a scenario that exploits any confusion about the two of them.
To make the Hornet more powerful, give him more insect powers: stings with deadly venom (RKA, NND, Does BODY, No Range), powers derived from stink bugs or bombardier beetles, and so forth. He might also gain the power to summon, control, and even mutate insects. As noted above, he’s becoming more and more insect- like, though this is a slow process; in time he’ll lose the ability to return to normal human form at all. If he’s too strong for your game, reduce the Active Points in his Multipower reserve (or at least some of the slots) and get rid of his Danger Sense.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Hornet worked with VIPER for a while early in his career, but eventually decided he was sick and tired of taking orders from idiots and left. Now VIPER wants him back so it can experiment on him
and perhaps find a way to give its agents some of his powers.
The villain Dragonfly was created in one of Hornet’s schemes and now wants to kill him, pref- erably in as painful a way as possible.
Hornet thinks MantisMan deliberately copied his powers when building the MantisMan armor, and if he ever gets the chance he’s going to beat him bloody to teach him a little respect.

Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
30 STR 22 DEX 25 CON 15 INT 14 EGO 20 PRE
20 24 15
5
4 10
15- 13- 14- 12- 12- 13-
Lift 1,600 kg; 6d6 HTH damage [3]
8 OCV
7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0 5 DMCV 6
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 Total: 20 PD (12 rPD)
Total: 18 ED (12 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 231
12m 60m
6 SPD 20 PD
40
18
18 ED 11REC 7 50END 6 14 BODY 4 42 STUN 11
HORNET
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Enraged: in combat (Common), go 11-, recover 11- 20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: VIPER (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 10 Hunted: Thunderbird (Infrequently, As Pow, Kill)
20 Psychological Complication: Constant Bitterness; Feels The World Owes Him (Very Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Hatred Of Humanity (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Gerald Byrne) (Frequently, Major)
10 Unluck 2d6
20 Vulnerability: 2 x Effect from Chemicals/Poisons/Drugs
(Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 143
Movement: Running: Flight:
Cost Powers
END
0
8 3
8
0
0 0
25
16
54 Insect Size: Shrinking (.032 m tall [about 1 inch], .0004 kg mass, -12 to PER Rolls to perceive character, +12 DCV, takes +36m KB) Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
87 Insect Powers: Multipower, 87-point reserve 8f 1) Sting: Drain STUN 8d6
9f 2) Sting Blast: Blast 14d6
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
6f 3) Chrysalis Blast: Entangle 8d6, 8 PD/8 ED
Limited Range (20m; -1⁄4)
60 Wings: Flight 60m
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Restrainable (-1⁄2)
12 Exoskeletal Skin: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 12 PD/12 ED
5 Multifaceted Eyes: Infrared Perception (Sight Group) 10 Multifaceted Eyes: Increased Arc Of Perception (360
Degrees) for Sight Group 0 10 Wallcrawling: Clinging (normal STR) 0
Talents
22 Insect Senses: Danger Sense (self only, out of combat, Sense) 13-
Skills
12 +4 with Sting, Sting Blast, and Chrysalis Blast
3 Breakfall 13-
2 KS: The Scientific World 11-
3 SS: Biology 12-
3 SS: Chemistry 12-
3 SS: Entomology 12-
3 Stealth 13
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 312 Total Cost: 543

Appearance: The Hornet wears a costume patterned after his namesake. It’s a yellow- gold bodysuit, but at about the sternum the gold ends in an upward-pointing chevron shape, and the upper chest, shoulders,
and arms are black. The boots are black, and the gloves yellow-gold. He wears no mask, his hair is a buzz cut, and his eyes are bulging, multi-faceted insect type eyes.

