Background/History: In 1991, Susan Sonderheim was an archaeologist working on a dig in the African jungle, where a survey team had found the remains of some interesting structures that didn’t seem to fit any other known civilization native to that region. While working on an outlying mound by herself, she heard a loud noise — almost like a machine — off in the jungle. Curious, she left her worksite to see what was causing the disturbance.
She crept up through the jungle and came upon a most intriguing scene. A group of men, being led by a tall, strong-looking man carrying a rifle, were using a diesel crane to move a strange object. At first she took it for some sort of airplane, but she soon realized it was actually an alien spaceship! She watched the men work, careful not to reveal her presence, but keeping her eyes open for a way to obtain something from the ship for herself. An alien artifact would be the find of a lifetime. She’d get tenure. She’d get rich!
Soon her watchfulness paid off. As the ship was lifted out of the crater it had made in the jungle, she saw a small object fall from inside. While the men’s attention was focused on getting the ship safely onto a flatbed truck, she darted out from her hiding place, snatched the object from the ground, and got back behind cover. She stuffed it in her pocket and snuck away as quietly as she could.

When she decided she’d gotten away without anyone noticing her, she took the object out of her pocket and looked at it. It was... odd. Definitely an amulet or necklace of some sort, she figured, but nothing from any Earth culture she’d ever heard of. Intrigued, she unclasped it and put it on.
As soon as she had it settled around her neck, she felt it tighten and seize onto her. The amulet was bonding with her, attaching itself to her flesh. As she reached to tear it away, a cacophony of images flooded into her mind, causing her
to clutch her head in pain. Finally the agony in her skull became too much to handle, and she screamed.
As the scream — the most intense she’d ever uttered — died away, so did the pain. She looked around, and saw that her scream had shattered, and in places almost liquified, a nearby tree. As the amulet continued to interact with her mind, she realized it had given her superpowers — she could control sound! She laughed — a throaty, melodic laugh far richer and more vibrant than she’d ever laughed. The amulet was hers now, and she wasn’t going to let the aliens, or anyone else, take it away from her.
Since then, Sonderheim, as Howler, has used her sonic powers to commit crimes. Though she still works as a professor at Millennium City University to maintain some semblance of a normal life, she’s not the woman she once was. She’s something far, far better.
Personality/Motivation: Howler’s once ordinary (if somewhat self-centered and greedy) personality has been significantly warped by her contact and merging with the Hzeel amulet (a communica- tions system central processing link, normally worn by a starship’s pilot or communications officer). She’s become suspicious and paranoid, especially where aliens (or anyone who looks like he might be an alien) are concerned — xeno- phobia in the true sense of the word. She’s particu- larly scared that the aliens, or even someone else, will take the amulet away from her, which would lead to her death (see below). She’s even become extremely superstitious, planning crimes for “lucky days” and cancelling jobs at the least little “dark omen.” She has a skilled astrologer cast a horoscope for her at least once a month.
Quote: “Want to hear what pain feels like?”
Powers/Tactics: Howler’s sonic powers derive from the alien amulet she wears. Once a part of
a Hzeel scoutship’s communications system, it
has merged with her Human body and, in the process, granted her the ability to project powerful blasts of focused sound, deafen others with an appropriately-tuned scream, protect herself with a sonic force-field, and even use sonic projections to propel herself through the air! She can also absorb sonic attacks, thus increasing her own powers, and is virtually immune to damage from such attacks.

Appearance: Howler
is an extraordinarily attractive woman with long, dark hair and dark eyes. Her costume is dark red; it consists of a central piece sort of like a strapless one-piece bathing suit, thigh-high boots, and gloves that reach a little more than halfway up her forearms. She also wears a red cloak, clasped at the throat with her alien amulet (which has actually melded with her flesh, making it difficult to remove). She does
not wear a mask, and is certain to lose her Secret Identity one of these days when someone recognizes her or she’s captured.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
13 STR 3 12- 26 DEX 32 14- 23 CON 13 14- 13 INT 3 12- 13 EGO 3 12- 20 PRE 10 13-
8 OCV 25
9 DCV 30
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
Lift 150 kg; 21⁄2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 27 PD (20 rPD)
Total: 27 ED (20 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 176
5 SPD 7 PD
7 ED
8 REC 4
45END 5
10 BODY 30 STUN
0 5
Skills
Movement: Running: Flight:
Cost Powers
12m 40m
10 +2 with Sonic Powers Multipower 5 Mimicry 13-
2 AK: Africa 11-
2 AK: The Middle East 11-
2 AK: Millennium City University 11- 5 KS: Ancient History 14-
3 KS: The Archaeological World 12- 2 PS: Archaeologist 11-
2 PS: Professor 11-
3 PS: Singing 13-
2 SS: Archaeology 11-
2 SS: Sonics 11-
3 Stealth 14-
5 Ventriloquism 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 298 Total Cost: 474
30
5
5
53 Sonic Powers: Multipower, 80-point reserve All OIF (amulet; -1⁄2)
4f 1) Sonic Scream I: Blast 12d6 OIF (-1⁄2)
5f 2) Sonic Scream II: Blast 8d6
Variable Advantage (+1⁄2 Advantages; +1); OIF (-1⁄2)
5f 3) Sonic Scream III: Blast 5d6
Variable Advantage (+1 Advantages; +2); OIF (-1⁄2)
4f 4) Deafening Scream: Hearing Group Flash 14d6 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2)
51 Pump Up The Volume: Absorption 15 BODY (energy) Expanded Effect (all Sonic powers simultaneously;
+4), Delayed Return Rate (points fade at the rate of 5 per Minute; +1); OIF (amulet; -1⁄2), Limited Phenomena (sonics only; -3⁄4)
43 Sonic Screen: Resistant Protection (20 PD/20 ED) Hardened (+1⁄4); OIF (-1⁄2), Costs Half Endurance (-1⁄4)
27 Sonic Immunity: Energy Damage Reduction, Resistant, 75%
OIF (amulet; -1⁄2), Only Works Against Sonics (-3⁄4) 40 Riding The Soundwaves: Flight 40m
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2)
3 Enhanced Hearing: Ultrasonic Hearing (Hearing Group) 6 Enhanced Hearing: +3 PER with Hearing Group
Talents
3 Perfect Pitch
6 Striking Appearance +2/+2d6
400
40
5
20 20 20
Matching Complications (75)
Dependence: must remain in contact with her amulet or take 2d6 damage per Turn (Uncommon)
Distinctive Features: sultry voice (Easily Concealable, Noticed And Recognizable)
Hunted: Sentinels (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) Psychological Complication: Code Versus Killing
(Common, Total)
Psychological Complication: Superstitious (Common,
Strong)
Psychological Complication: Xenophobia; Fears Aliens
Will Try To Take Amulet Away (Common, Strong) Rivalry: Professional (with another archaeologist)
Social Complication: Secret Identity (Susan Sonderheim)
(Frequently, Major)
Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Electricity (Common)
END
6 var var 0
0
3
0
0
15
0 0
15
5 15
20
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 74

HOWLER FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Howler if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Howler is a supervillainess with sonic powers.
K/R: Howler can even fly by manipulating sound waves.
-2: Howler’s powers become stronger if she’s hit with a Sonic attack.
-4: Howler seems to be superstitious; she believes in things like “lucky days” and omens.
-6: Electricity attacks cause Howler intense pain.
-10: Her Secret Identity is Susan Sonderheim; she’s an archaeology professor at Millennium City University.

Unfortunately, her powers came with a price. The Hzeel amulet (which she works into a neck- lace to disguise it in her civilian identity) has actually merged with her physically and altered her physiology. Not only would removing the amulet cause her a minor wound (1 BODY), but because she’s become physically dependent upon it, she’ll quickly lapse into a coma and die without it. The changes to her biology and the presence of the necklace have also made her more vulnerable to electricity attacks.
Unlike Warcry (see CV1), whose powers derive from a similar source, but are much more limited, Howler is a versatile combatant, and relies on
that versatility in combat. She’ll usually start out with a straightforward Blast, using her Variable Advantage attacks to switch to NNDs, Armor Piercing or Penetrating blasts, and Explosions of focused sound if necessary. She’s been in plenty
of super-battles and knows how to handle herself; she won’t react foolishly or hot-headedly unless her paranoia gets the better of her.
Howler’s good looks and Code Versus Killing have made her relatively popular in the media, as supervillains go. She doesn’t have Lady Blue’s following, but there are more than a few websites dedicated to her... and no doubt a few villains who’d like to get to know her better, so to speak.
Campaign Use: Although Howler sometimes forms her own gang, she usually works best as part of a more powerful villain’s team of henchmen. The trick to recruiting her is overcoming her paranoia and xenophobia. That in itself could make for an interesting plot development point. Her connection to the Hzeel also provides fodder for scenarios; she might switch sides and become a hero for a while to stop Hzeel invaders or prevent other “aliens” from taking her amulet.
To make Howler more powerful, increase the points in her Multipower slots, making each one 75 or 90 Active Points (or more), or even replace the Multipower with a Variable Power Pool.
You could also add slots, perhaps drawing upon Warcry’s powers or the “Sonic Powers” section of Champions Powers for inspiration. To weaken her, get rid of her Flight and Absorption, and decrease most of her attack abilities to 50 Active Points.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Howler’s worked with many different villains and teams over the years, including the Crimelords, the Ultimates (though she considers Slick a sexist pig), and Gargantua. She won’t work with a villain whom she knows is an alien or believes might be one (or a team that has an alien member). She’s particularly frightened of Nebula, possibly enough to overcome her Code Versus Killing.
Although neither of them know it, Howler is of interest to the Warlord. If he realizes her powers come from “Blueboy” (Hzeel) technology, he’ll do whatever he can to get his hands on it... regardless of the fact that she’ll die without her amulet.

