Background/History: Not far from Earth (as these things are sometimes measured, dimensionally speaking) likes an alternate Earth dimension known to its inhabitants as Kormyon. The primary species in this dimension is the Kormyonese, beings who are physically almost indistinguish- able from humanity. Psychologically, though, it’s
a different matter. The dominant philosophy/reli- gion among the Kormyonese is Plessianity, whose central doctrines counsel calmness, emotionless, orderliness, and sobriety in all aspects of life. As a result the Kormyonese are quiet and efficient, but by most sentients’ standards incredibly dull.
Given this outlook on life, the arch-nemesis figure in Plessianity — its Satan, if you will — embodies the opposite philosophies: chaos, frivolity, confusion, messiness, humor, emotions run riot. What the Kormyonese call him, no one on Earth knows, for on Earth he has given himself the name the Incubus.
The Incubus looked around Kormyon one day and decided he’d had enough. The Kormyonese were all crashing bores, despite his best efforts to liven the place up, so it was time to find a more entertaining gig. Casting his glance over the Multiverse, he chanced to notice Earth, and its population of colorfully garbed superhumans. They definitely looked like they’d be a lot of fun! So he packed a bag (metaphorically speaking) and came on over.
Or at least that’s how the Incubus tells it. Mystics and scientists who’ve tried to find this alternate Earth he describes have come up dry, so the Superhuman World only has his word — and you know what that’s worth — to go on. Some experts have suggested other origins for him, including: he’s an alien from a species with ultra- powerful psionic abilities; he’s some sort of physical manifestation of the spirit of human mischievous- ness; he’s a faerie-king exiled into the “real world” from time to time for some reason; and he’s an incredibly powerful (and disturbed) mutant.
Personality/Motivation: The Incubus exists to create (or promote) disorder, chaos, frivolity, confusion, passion, and humor. Unfortunately as an essentially “evil” being he embodies the worst aspects of these traits, so his actions — which he usually refers to as “pranks” or “dramas” — tend to have negative consequences or be tinged with maliciousness. For example he might cause a citywide blackout just to see everyone scurry about in a panic, not thinking about the lives that will be lost in the process or the crimes that will be committed.
Naturally, the Incubus’s favorite targets are people and groups that take themselves “too seri- ously,” in his view. They become the butt of his “sense of humor,” and it’s rarely a pleasant experi- ence. Things get even worse for those who actively defy him, try to stop him, or willfully refuse to “get in the mood”; then his “pranks” become deliber- ately cruel, even deadly.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
10 STR 0
30 DEX 40
20 CON 10
30 INT 20
30 EGO 20 15-
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 15- PRE Attack: 6d6
Phases:2,3,5,6,8,9,11,12 Total: 20 PD (20 rPD)
Total: 20 ED (20 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 376
30 PRE 20
10 OCV 35 12 DCV 45 10 OMCV 21 10 DMCV 21 8 SPD 60
20 PD 18 20 ED 18 20 REC 16 80 END 12 15 BODY 5 50 STUN 15
15-
11- 15- 13- 15-
260 I Really Know How To Travel: Multipower, 260-point reserve
26f 1) Going Away: Teleportation 60m, No Relative
Velocity, Position Shift, Safe Aquatic Teleport 0
Armor Piercing (x2; +1⁄2), MegaScale (1m = 1 km; +1), Safe Blind Teleport (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
22f 2) Coming To Me: Teleportation 60m 0
Usable As Attack (defense is teleportation powers or Power Defense; +11⁄4), Increased Mass (inanimate objects up to 400k; +1⁄2), Ranged (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
9u 3) Travelin’ The Multiverse, Baby: Extra-Dimensional Movement (any location in any dimension, can
travel through time), x8 Increased Weight 3 Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
73 Can’t Hide From Me: Detect Physical Objects, Energy, and Magic (INT Roll) (no Sense Group), Discriminatory, Analyze, Fully Penetrative, Increased Arc Of Perception (360 Degrees), Range, Sense, Targeting, Telescopic (+12 versus Range Modifier), Tracking
Skills
48 +4 Overall
3 Concealment 15-
3 AK: The Multiverse 15-
3 KS: Cosmic Beings 15-
3 KS: Dimension Lords 15-
2 Navigation (Dimensional) 15- 3 Sleight Of Hand 15-
3 Stealth 15-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 1,310 Total Cost: 1,686
Movement: Running:
Teleportation: 60m
Cost Powers END
375 The World How I Want It: Severe Transform 10d6 (anything into anything, heals back through
another application of this or a similar power) 0 Improved Results Group (anything; +1), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
150 Seeing A Different World: Multipower, 150-point reserve 10f 1) Solo Illusion: Mental Illusions 16d6 4
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
10f 2) Group Illusion: Sight, Hearing, Touch, and Smell/
Taste Group Images, -6 to PER Rolls 4
Area Of Effect (32m Radius; +1), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
10f 3) Entrancing Illusion: Entangle 6d6, 6 PD/6 ED
ACV (uses OMCV against DMCV; +1⁄4), Takes No Damage From Physical Attacks (see 6E1 217; +3⁄4), Work Against EGO, Not STR (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Mental Defense Adds To EGO (-1⁄2)
9
10 Incubus Form: Hardened (+1⁄4) for 20 PD/20 ED 0 10 Incubus Form: Impenetrable (+1⁄4) for 20 PD/20 ED 0 30 Incubus Form: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 20 PD/20 ED 0
Hardened (+1⁄4), Impenetrable (+1⁄4)
120 Incubus Form: Physical And Energy Damage
Reduction, Resistant, 75% 0 60 Can’t See Me, Can Ya?: Invisibility to Sight, Hearing,
and Smell/Taste Groups, No Fringe 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
67 Me How I Want Me: Shape Shift (Sight, Hearing,
Touch, and Smell/Taste Group, any shape), Imita- tion, Instant Change
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
400
20
20 25
15
Matching Complications (75)
Hunted: the Champions (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) Psychological Complication: Loves To Spread Chaos,
Confusion, And Frivolity, Spiced With Malicious Humor
(Very Common, Total)
Psychological Complication: Loves Puzzles, Riddles,
Games, And Similar Competitions (Common, Strong)
12m
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 1,686

Fortunately for Earth’s heroes, the Incubus has one Achilles’s heel: his own psychology. The one thing he loves besides spreading chaos and “fun” are intellectual competitions of any sort: puzzles, riddles, games, and similar contests. He can rarely resist a challenge to participate
in such things, though he often sets the ground rules to suit himself or make his opponents squirm (“All righty, I accept your challenge
to play Trivial Pursuit to determine whether I turn Asia into a carnival... but we’re going to use my cards.”)
If the Incubus loses a challenge, he scru- pulously abides by the terms he agreed to (though make sure you word them correctly; he gleefully twists the slightest ambiguity to make the situation come out to his benefit). But he’s not stupid enough to agree to anything that seriously hinders (much less harms) him, regardless of how enticing a challenge is. For example, he might agree to stop whatever he’s doing and go away until next Christmas, but he won’t agree to leave the Earth (or any given part or inhabitant of it) alone forever. What fun would that be?
Quote: “I think you’d look a lot better purple.”
Powers/Tactics: The Incubus has vast powers of reality alteration. He can, literally, change anything into anything, create amazingly convincing illusions, change his own shape at will, or teleport anywhere he wants to. He’s not invulnerable, but if you attack him you’d better be prepared to spend the rest of your life as a dung beetle or a block of stone.


Thus, “fighting” the Incubus is usually a matter of reacting to what he does, and then when
the time is right issuing him a challenge that’s intriguing enough to him for him to accept. It’s unlikely the same group of heroes will get him
to go for the same challenge more than once; he prefers variety and new experiences.
The exact nature of the Incubus’s powers is obscure. They seem like magic, which is consis- tent with his expressed “origin,” but they’re not perceivable as mystic energy with “Detect Magic” spells and similar abilities.
Campaign Use: The Incubus is here to drive your PCs (and your players!) insane.... in a good way. Heroes used to fighting force with force will soon find that they can’t oppose the Incubus that way; he’ll effectively remove them from the campaign by Transforming them into, say, a lump of coal and leaving them that way forever. They have to beat him with smarts, cleverness, and trickery — not the easiest thing in the Multiverse to do.
To make the Incubus tougher, just convert
all his distinct powers into one gigantic Cosmic Variable Power Pool — and even if you don’t
do that, you should of course feel free to add whatever powers he needs to make one of his “plots” work the way you want it to. You generally shouldn’t weaken him (that changes the nature of the character), but if necessary you could reduce his Damage Reduction so the PCs at least have a chance to Knock him Out if they get desperate.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: “Associate with these jamokes? Are you kiddin’ me?” The Incubus looks upon all humanity (indeed, all sentient life) as toys for him to play with. He doesn’t even have enemies as far as anyone knows; at most he might consider a hero who bests him repeatedly as a “rival.”
Appearance: The impish Incubus is hard to describe even if you don’t take his powers of shapechanging, illusion generation, and reality alteration into account. He’s only three feet tall and has bright red skin almost like a cartoon devil, with a face, black hair, and black Van Dyke beard that would also seem diabolic if he weren’t so often grinning and chortling. His clothing and accouterments change to suit his mood; some of his favorites seem to include a dark-colored men’s suit (sometimes with matching walking stick), a purple and gold toga, a pair of overalls and a straw hat, and various outfits patterned after those of the heroes he’s currently “having fun with.” Often there’s some additional element of his clothing wildly at odds with the rest of his outfit, such as wearing bright green sneakers with the men’s suit.
The Incubus often speaks with odd accents
and unusual lingo, sometimes changing them in mid-encounter if the mood takes him. Favorites seem to include a Brooklyn accent, an Irish accent, a humorously snooty French accent, Thirties gang- ster slang, and “hippyspeak.


INCUBUS FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about the impish Incubus if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: The Incubus is a strange being who seems to be able to change reality at will, and does so to promote chaos, confusion, and what he calls “fun.” Other people tend to find terms like “inconvenience” and “danger” more accurate than “fun.”
K/R: The Incubus claims to have come from an alternate Earth where
he was, in effect, the “Satan” in a religion that stressed emotionless, stability, and sobriety in all things. However, no human mystic or scientist has ever located this alternate Earth.
-1: The Incubus can’t resist intellectual competitions like puzzles, riddles, games, and similar contests; heroes usually stop him by chal- lenging him to one, with the Incubus agreeing to stop what he’s doing and set everything back the way it was if he loses.

