20 Spiritual Immunities: Life Support (Self-Contained Breathing; Immunity: all terrestrial diseases and biowarfare agents; Longevity: Immortality) 0
10 Astral Awareness: Dimensional (Astral Plane)
for Sight Group 0
10 Astral Awareness: Dimensional (Astral Plane)
for Hearing Group 0
20 Monitor Minions: Mind Link, to any 4 of Lamplighter’s soulless slaves 0
27 Spiritual Sight: Detect Souls 14- (no Sense Group), Discriminatory, Sense, Targeting 0 10 Slide Up Walls: Clinging (normal STR) 0
Perks
3 Anonymity
5 Fringe Benefit: Chief Advisor Who Doesn’t Officially Exist
Talents
20 Universal Translator 14-
Skills
10 +2 with Soul Powers Multipower 10 +5 OMCV with Mind Scan
3 Bribery 15-
3 Bureaucratics 15-
3 Concealment 14-
3 Conversation 15-
3 Interrogation 15-
3 KS: Dictator Psychology 14-
2 KS: Global Politics 11-
2 KS: The Mercenary/Paramilitary/Terrorist World 11-
0 3 KS: The Soul 14-
2 KS: World Organized Crime 11-
3 Persuasion 15-
3 Stealth 14-
3 Streetwise 15-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 427
6 Total Cost: 713
400 Matching Complications (75)
15 Distinctive Features: Indefinably repulsive old man (Concealable; Causes Dislike)
Val Char Cost Roll
25 STR 15 14-
24 DEX 28 14-
25 CON 15 14-
23 INT 13 14- 23 EGO 13 14- 30 PRE 20 15-
8 OCV 25 8 DCV 25 8 OMCV 15 8 DMCV 15 5 SPD 30
25 PD 23 25 ED 23 10REC 6 50END 6 14 BODY 4 40 STUN 10
Movement: Running: Cost Powers
Notes
Lift 800 kg; 5d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 14- PRE Attack: 6d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 25 PD (10 rPD)
Total: 25 ED (10 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 286
12m
90 Soul Powers: Multipower, 90-point reserve 7f 1) Soul-Orb Possession: Mind Control 12d6
Telepathic (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Perceivable (-1⁄4)
7f 2) Soul-Orb Barrage: Mental Blast 7d6
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Perceivable (-1⁄4)
6f 3) Soul-Orb Swarm: Mental Blast 3d6
Area Of Attack (32m Radius Selective; +11⁄4),
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Perceivable (-1⁄4) 8f 4) Soulform: Desolidification (affected by magic)
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2) plus: Invisibility to Sight Group
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Linked (-1⁄2), Does Not Work Against Persons With Mental Awareness Or Astral Awareness (-1⁄4)
60 Soul-Orb Searchers: Mind Scan 12d6
22 Take Soul: Severe Transform 2d6 (normal person to person with the Psychological Complication
Utterly Obedient To Lamplighter [Very Common, Total], heals by Knocking Out Lamplighter or his voluntarily relinquishing the soul)
ACV (uses OMCV against DMCV; +1⁄4), AVAD (Mental Defense; +0), Works Against EGO, Not BODY (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Concentration (1⁄2 DCV; -1⁄4), Extra Time (Full Phase; -1⁄2), Limited Target (mental “objects” in the minds of sentient beings; -1⁄2), No Range (-1⁄2)
3
3 3
16 Soul Light: Sight Group Images, +2 to PER Rolls 0 Area Of Effect (8m Radius; +1⁄2), Reduced Endurance
(0 END; +1⁄2); Only To Create Light (-1)
10 Spiritual Shield: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 10 PD/10 ED 0 20 Impenetrable Evil: Mental Defense (20 points) 0
10 Hunted: enemies of current “master” (Infrequently, As Pow, Kill)
10 Hunted: mystic hero (Infrequently, As Pow, Capture/Kill) 15 Psychological Complication: Sadistic (Very Common) 10 Psychological Complication: Hates Mentalists
(Common)
15 Susceptibility: to light-based Flash Attacks, takes 2d6
damage, Instant Effect (Common)
5 Vulnerability: 11⁄2 x STUN from Soul Magic (Uncommon) 5 Vulnerability: 11⁄2 x BODY from Soul Magic (Uncommon) Total Complications Points: 75
Experience Points: 313

Background/History: Fifteen years was long enough. The creature wanted another dictator. The years with Ceaucescu had been sweet. The execu- tions, the dissidents writhing under the electrode’s kiss, and ahhh! the delicate souls of children, slowly plucked by careless transfusions of contam- inated blood! He’d felt like a child in a candy store, its dictator-owner inviting him to gorge himself on mortal pain and despair. He kept Ceaucescu in power for years while Romania crumbled, until nothing was left except the machinery of repres- sion. Lampagiu, the secret police called him: the Lamplighter. The little spies were so upset they could not collect files on him, until he explained they did not keep files on their masters. And then it all fell apart.
Not that he had gone hungry since the dictator died. He found other employers to feed him tormented souls. Iraq, Bosnia, Sierra Leone, Congo — ambitious mortals would sanction any atrocity for the sake of power, pride, or wealth. The Lamplighter gave them what they wanted. And they gave him what he wanted.
He wearied of petty warlords and bureaucrats, though. He wanted to live in high style again. He wanted to turn an entire nation into one great howl of anguish, and know he owned it all. He wanted a dictator.
Or someone he could turn into a dictator.
The Lamplighter smiled to himself and leaned back into his seat as the plane began its descent. Soon, very soon, he would have a new home.
Personality/Motivation: This psychic vampire
sees all humans as dupes, slaves, or food. Lamp- lighter’s powers enable him to control people,
but he doesn’t try becoming a big boss himself. Instead, he finds some evil person who already has a strong power base. He prefers dictators, but may settle for Third World insurgency commanders, crime lords, evil corporate CEOs, or VIPER Nest Leaders. Lamplighter becomes that person’s helper and advisor. Then he uses the person’s organiza- tion to collect souls, preferably “harvested” in pain or despair. When justice catches up with his sponsor, he cuts and runs.
Quote: “I am the Way and the Truth and the Light.... You will see that soon enough.”
Powers/Tactics: Lamplighter mystically controls the substance of the human soul. He collects souls taken from people dying in anguish or corrupted by his powers. Normally, these are invisible, impal- pable, and undetectable by normal means. But when he uses them, the souls become fist-sized balls of eerie light. He can send soul-orbs crashing into victims, causing pain: the victim feels all the anguish the soul felt in life. He can ram a soul-
orb into a victim’s psyche, forcing the person to do something. Since he wants to corrupt people, he often tries to make victims think their forced actions were really their own idea.
Lamplighter can also send swarms of soul- orbs to search for people. Soul-orbs travel nearly instantaneously, but he can’t send them more than about 50 miles away without losing them. (This is a plot device restriction to keep him from attacking heroes from halfway around the world — but it’s not a Limitation, so if necessary you can extend the range of his Mind Scan, perhaps at some cost to Lamplighter [higher END cost, takes more time to use, or the like].)
Lamplighter can turn a victim into a loyal slave by pulling out his soul. If forced to he can do this in a “quick and dirty” fashion (i.e., use the ability on his character sheet), but he strongly prefers
to take a week or so to work on the victim and made him commit several evil deeds. The soulless slaves all have a Mind Link back to Lamplighter. Characters can free slaves by forcing Lamplighter to relinquish the person’s soul. If Lamplighter is Knocked Out, all the souls of still-living slaves fly out of his body and head back to their bodies.
When he wants, Lamplighter can shift to an invisible, ghost-like form, though magic still affects him. Anyone with mental or spiritual senses can still see Lamplighter (which means anyone with Mental Powers), and he can’t use his soul-orbs to attack without becoming solid and visible again.

LAMPLIGHTER FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Lamplighter if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Lamplighter is a strange supervil- lain with the mystic power to control and manipulate souls.
He even has a “flock” of souls
he’s stolen that he can use to attack his enemies with.
K/R: Lamplighter’s most fearsome power is to take
a person’s soul, thereby trans- forming him into Lamplighter’s willing slave. Knocking Lamplighter out
can reverse this effect in most cases, fortunately.
-1: Lamplighter can even use his “soul-orbs” to find someone anywhere in the world.
-6: Bursts of intense, bright light cause Lamplighter pain.
-8: Lamplighter has apparently worked as a behind the scenes advisor to many Third World dictators and other dangerous govern- ment officials.
-10: Since he’s
so attuned to manipulation of the soul, Lamplighter suffers great pain if he’s attacked with soul-based magics (including having his own powers Reflected at him).

Campaign Use: Lamplighter functions as a behind-the-scenes villain — the cunning, evil power behind the throne. He uses his powers
to help his employer, but only so he himself can harvest more souls. If you like to combine political and mystical conspiracy, make Lamplighter the advisor to your favorite dictator, evil tycoon,
or other socially prominent mastermind. For instance, Lamplighter might turn up next in a country like Awad, helping his new master run the nation into the ground.
Lamplighter’s background has been deliber- ately left vague so you can work him into your campaign in the creepiest, most disturbing fashion possible. Is he a normal person trained in a strange, necromantic art? A “mystic mutant”? A devil escaped from Hell to work his will on Earth? An alien super-mage? An astral creature of some sort? A corrupted angel or psychopomp? Only you can say for sure.
To make Lamplighter a more powerful foe, increase his defenses, give him more soul-orb attacks, or raise his Mind Scan so he can more easily find and attack strong-willed characters. To make him less powerful, scale back his soul-orb attacks.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: The Cham- pions Universe has plenty of potential employers for Lamplighter, and he keeps an eye on them so he can remain alert for opportunities to make himself useful and get an “in” with them. The villain he’d most like to work for would be Joseph Otanga, but Otanga’s as wary as a leopard and unlikely to accept help from a white man unless Lamplighter can really prove himself useful. Franklin Stone, Slun, and the Warlord are other possible candidates, particularly the latter if he ever seizes power in some part of the world. Various high-ranking VIPER and ARGENT offi- cers would also serve Lamplighter’s purposes well in the right circumstances.
Failing that, there are plenty of mundane dicta- tors who could use Lamplighter’s services. Awad, Chíquador, Costa Azúl, Guamanga, Lurranga, and Taqiristan are all possible candidates (see CU for information on these nations).
Lamplighter tends to avoid other members of the Mystic World for fear that they’ll learn too much about him, reveal some of his secrets to
the world, or find ways to counteract his powers. Thus, he’s never worked for or with the Circle Of The Scarlet Moon or DEMON. However, he has attracted the attention of the Trismegistus Council, which is trying to track him down and capture him.
Appearance: Lamplighter appears to be an elderly man with magnetic black eyes, silver hair fringing a bald pate, and a mocking expression. He dresses plainly, even shabbily, in dark clothes. He likes to carry a black cane topped with a small, silver skull, but he doesn’t need it either for his powers or to walk. When he doesn’t need to hide his powers,
he lets his soul-orbs flow around his body; they’re about as bright as a night-light, making them visible (but not spectacularly so) in daylight and quite prominent at night.

