Background/History: Leviathan (who has long forgotten his birth name) is a Lemurian, a member of the ancient subterranean race who sank their own continent accidentally thousands of years
ago (see Champions Universe and Hidden Lands). Leviathan himself is over a hundred years old, which makes him a callow youth by Lemurian standards — but more importantly, even before the 2003 rebellion led many Lemurians to resume their reptilian forms he was a rare throwback to some of the ancient stock of his people before
the Cataclysm. Standing over eight feet tall, his dark, scaly skin rippling with muscles, Leviathan from an early age towered over his peers and therefore had great status in Lemuria’s warrior- based culture. Even before he reached his full growth, the training academy was grooming him to become a general in the army and eventually
to lead Lemurian forces in wars against humanity and their protectors, the Empyreans.
But fate had other plans for the young warrior. In 1976, a complicated plot by the Lemurian priest Leptor required an assault on the undersea city of Atlantis, and due to his unique mutations Leviathan was chosen to lead it. Unfortunately, the attack came at a time when the Fabulous Five were visiting Queen Mara. With their aid the Atlan- teans repulsed the assault, and Diamond defeated Leviathan in personal combat. Leviathan was temporarily imprisoned in Atlantis, but escaped along with several other criminals when the mad scientist Professor Morlak attacked Atlantis.
Striking up a friendship with his fellow aquatic villain Moray, Leviathan chose not to return to Lemuria but instead live among the far more entertaining humans. He began accepting mercenary assignments, working as a henchman or bodyguard for various powerful supervillains. Though he’s battled many superheroes, he’s rarely been cleanly defeated, and on those few occasions he’s usually avoided lengthy incarceration (save for one two-year stint in Stronghold, which did little to rehabilitate him but introduced him to a number of new potential employers).
Personality/Motivation: For all of Leviathan’s alien qualities, he’s actually not a hard guy to get along with. He enjoys drinking, fighting, and hanging out with the guys; it’s just that “the guys” he hangs out with tend to be supervillains. He has a habit
of pushing around people weaker than himself because he’s always been taught that that’s what the strong do.
Leviathan has an almost childish sense of honor. If someone he thought was a friend or ally turns on him, he feels deeply hurt... and then he gets very, very angry.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
65 STR 55 22- 17 DEX 14 12- 35 CON 25 16- 11 INT 1 11- 13 EGO 3 12- 25 PRE 15 14-
6 OCV 15 6 DCV 15
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
Lift 200 tons; 13d6 HTH damage [6]
5 SPD 28 PD
30
26
PER Roll 11- PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 28 PD (20 rPD)
Total: 25 ED (20 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 291
12m 44m
25 ED
20 REC 16 70 END 10 23 BODY 13
74 STUN
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
END
23
27 Swimming:
65 Call The Terrors Of The Deep: Summon up to 8 sea creatures built on up to 250 Total Points each Expanded Class (any sea creature; +1⁄2), Loyal (+1⁄2); Arrives Under Own Power (-1⁄2), Summoned Creature Must Inhabit Locale (-1⁄2)
13
20 Thick, Blubbery Skin: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 20 PD/20 ED 0 30 Thick, Blubbery Skin: Physical and Energy Damage
Reduction, Resistant, 25% 0 8 Gills And Underwater Adaptations: Life Support
(Expanded Breathing: breathe underwater; Safe
Environments: High Pressure, Intense Cold) 0 32 Fast Healer: Regeneration (2 BODY per Turn) 0 20 Super-Swimming: Swimming +40m (44m total) 2 20 Sonar Sense: Active Sonar, Increased Arc Of
Perception (360 Degrees) 0 15 Speak With Sea Creatures: Mind Link (any 8 minds
at once)
Only Works On Sea Creatures (-1)
4 Lemurian Lifespan: Life Support (Longevity: lifespan
of 1,600 years) 0
Perks
3 Contact: King Arvad of Lemuria 8- (very useful Skills/ resources)
Talents
4 Environmental Movement: Aquatic Movement (no penal- ties in the water)
Skills
32 +4 HTH
2 AK: Earth’s Oceans 11-
3 AK: Lemuria 12-
3 Language: English (completely fluent; Lemurian is Native) 3 Stealth 12-
2 Survival (Marine) 11-
3 Tactics 11-
2 WF: Common Melee Weapons
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 271
Total Cost: 562
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Enraged: when cheated or betrayed (Uncommon), go 14-, recover 11-
15 Hunted: Archon (Infrequently, Mo Pow, Capture)
10 Hunted: Prince Marus (Infrequently, As Pow, Capture) 20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 10 Physical Complication: Clumsy, Clawed Hands (-2 to
DEX Rolls involving fine manipulation) (Infrequently,
Slightly Impairing)
10 Psychological Complication: Bully (Common, Moderate) 15 Psychological Complication: Overconfidence (Very
Common, Moderate)
10 Vulnerability: 11⁄2 x STUN from Fire/Heat attacks
(Common)
10 Vulnerability: 11⁄2 x BODY from Fire/Heat attacks
(Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 162

Leviathan selects the jobs he accepts based on the likelihood of entertaining conflicts and slugfests, especially if there’s a good chance of a rematch with somebody he’s tangled with before. He has little use for most of the money he earns, since he lives in an underwater cave off the coast of Los Angeles and eats fish — he only insists
on payment because it makes him look more “professional.”
Quote: “Hey, Ironclad! This time I’m gonna knock you into next week!”
Powers/Tactics: Leviathan is mostly a straight- forward brick who prefers to go toe-to-toe with similar opponents. He isn’t stupid (though he’s not well educated) and has enough common sense and general knowledge of tactics to surprise a hero with a clever ploy. He’s bright enough to realize that his comfort underwater gives him a tactical edge on most opponents, so he tries to maneuver as many of his fights into the nearest body of water as he can. When working in the ocean he uses his summoning powers to travel with a pack of sharks or orcas for companionship as well as combat support. (He genuinely enjoys the company of these creatures and gets very angry if they’re killed or harmed.)
Very few people know that Leviathan isn’t human. Most assume he’s a mutate of some sort.
Campaign Use: Leviathan makes a handy lieu- tenant for a master criminal working on or near the water — he’s smarter and tougher than most henchmen, and may surprise the PCs with both his strength and resourcefulness. Although he has little love for his fellow Lemurians, he might be persuaded to return to help King Arvad put down the rebellion.
To scale Leviathan down for a lower-point campaign, simply reduce his STR to 45-60 and remove his Damage Reduction. Conversely, it’s easy to scale him up simply by adding STR to the campaign limit (or perhaps a little beyond) and increasing his Damage Reduction to 50%.
Leviathan would be likely to Hunt a PC if he felt that individual treated him unfairly or beat him through luck (which in his mind accounts for most of his defeats). The more public and humili- ating a defeat was, the more likely Leviathan would seek some sort of revenge.


Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Leviathan is a pretty easy-going guy who gets along with other villains who can put up with his sort of bull-in-a- china-shop way of “relaxing.” This usually includes most other bricks, who are often just as boisterous as he is. One notable exception is Blackstar, whose drive to prove himself the strongest, toughest villain of them all has led to a couple of clashes with Leviathan (among others).
Some of the villains and teams Leviathan has worked with (and remains on good terms with) include Holocaust, the Brain Trust, the Crimelords, Anubis, Black Paladin, VIPER, and ARGENT. He won’t work for the Ultimates anymore unless Blackstar’s not involved.
Leviathan particularly dislikes Prince Marus (who’s beaten him on a couple of occasions). Typi- cally this sentiment extends to other Atlanteans or their known allies.
Leviathan isn’t sure exactly where Zorran the Artificer stands in terms of Lemurian politics and influence-dealing, and he’s definitely wary of the sorcerer’s power, so he avoids him and won’t take jobs where he might be involved.
During the 2006 “Alliance” team-up put together by Holocaust, Leviathan met Riptide and they’ve become friends. There aren’t too many villains who enjoy hanging out with him under- water, but she definitely fits that bill.
Appearance: Leviathan is a huge scaly monster, standing eight feet tall and weighing over seven hundred pounds. His skin is a dark, mottled green and covered in sharp scales. His back has a ridge of short horns running along his spine, and his hairless skull has a pronounced browridge. His hands and feet have thick, blunt claws.



LEVIATHAN FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Leviathan if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Leviathan is a super-strong villain who lives underwater. He mostly commits crimes on or near the water.
K/R: Leviathan’s clashed with Prince Marus and other Atlanteans (and their allies) several times; he doesn’t like them at all.
-1: Leviathan’s hands are large and clumsy; he has difficult performing tasks that require precise manipulation.
-8: Fire/Heat attacks cause Leviathan great pain.
-10: Leviathan isn’t human; he’s actually a Lemu- rian, a “throwback” to a much earlier time when Lemurians were reptilian.

