Background/History: As a child, Megan Munro loved animals. Her walls were covered with pictures of horses and elephants, her shelves with books about the creatures of the world, and her bed with the plush animals her parents gave her every Christmas. And animals liked her, too; the family dog and cat spent most of their time with her, and whenever her parents took her for pony rides or to the zoo, the animals would nuzzle her and eat right out of her hand.
As she approached adolescence, Megan began to have dreams about being an animal. Some nights she imagined herself a tiger, stalking through the jungle, some nights a shark cruising tropical waters, sometimes a fantastic creature like a dragon or a pegasus. Then one morning she woke up — and her dreams had come true. She was a housecat! Terrified, she huddled under the covers, wishing she was a girl again... and suddenly, she was.
Terror soon gave way to curiosity, and she discovered she could turn back and forth from a cat at will. After about a month of practice, she found she could turn into a rattlesnake, too. Over the course of her teenage years, other shapes followed as she became more and more comfort- able with her shapechanging powers. But as her powers improved, she became more animal-like as a human, at least in thought and attitude — more aggressive, more confrontational, more territo- rial. Most of her forms were dangerous, predatory animals, and somehow their instincts affected and interwove with her personality.
Then came the day when her arch-rival, Heather Townsend, beat her out for homecoming queen. Unable to resist the fury within her, that night Megan transformed into her tiger shape and went hunting. In the morning, Heather’s parents were horrified to find that some animal had mauled their daughter to death while she walked the family schnauzer. The police claimed it was “wild dogs,” but the truth was they had no clues at all.
Megan made it through college, and then veterinary school, without much difficulty. To pay her bills and keep herself in the style to which
she was quickly becoming accustomed, she used her animal power to commit crimes. Eventually she was hiring herself out as a spy, burglar, and sometimes even assassin. She also committed acts of vandalism, sabotage, and assassination against people and corporations she felt were despoiling the environment or harming animals.
Today, Megan maintains a secret identity as
a veterinary consultant to zoos all around the world; her rapport with animals is legendary among the zoological community. But at night she stalks the city as Menagerie, eager for the taste of warm blood in her mouth and the scent of her prey’s fear.

Personality/Motivation: Although she usually seems like a nice, ordinary person, Menagerie has an animalistic, predatory streak to her person- ality — one she normally conceals so people don’t suspect who she is. Aggressive, sometimes even vicious, she sees other people as potential prey, either for their riches or in the more literal sense of the term. Her code is the law of the jungle: anyone not strong, swift, or smart enough to avoid her deserves whatever happens to him. On the other hand, her animalistic side gives her a mild version of animals’ fear of fire.
Menagerie feels somewhat protective toward, and even possessive of, animals, and the environ- ment in general. She loathes anyone who mistreats or abuses animals, and will go out of her way to hurt them. This may include superheroes with “pets” whom she feels are demeaned by their rela- tionship with the hero. She also enjoys punishing polluters, companies, and stores who destroy the rain forest or other precious ecosystems, and the like.
Quote: “Everyone has to obey the law of the jungle... I just understand it better than you do.”
Powers/Tactics: Menagerie is a mutant with the power to assume the shapes and attributes of certain animals. At present she can only assume 16 shapes: grizzly bear, cheetah, crocodile, bull, falcon, horse, housecat, rattlesnake, rat, great white shark, sparrow, Bengal tiger, and four more defined by the GM. However, at first she could only assume one form, and gradually learned the others; it’s likely her repertoire of forms will keep growing.
Menagerie’s animal forms are slightly better than normal animals. Use the standard HERO System Bestiary character sheets for them, but add up to +50 points to make their INT, EGO, PRE, and perhaps SPD match her natural Character- istics, boost their senses to match her “Animal Senses” power if necessary, and so forth. You could even give some of them the Red In Tooth And Claw martial arts style from HSMA 84.
In combat, Menagerie shifts to the most appropriate shape (typically bear, tiger, or bull for land battles, shark or crocodile for water battles) and attacks aggressively. She can change shape
as a Zero Phase Action, allowing her to adapt to changing combat conditions quickly. Her smaller, faster forms make for easy escapes if necessary. Because most of her forms aren’t heavy on defense, she often dodges, uses cover, or tries to find other ways to compensate.
Besides being able to change into animal shapes, Menagerie also relates well to animals in general. She befriends them easily, and few of them, even trained ones like guard dogs, attack her without serious provocation.

Campaign Use: Menagerie makes a good antago- nist for many types of stories. First, because her powers let her vary her methods and style of attack, she’s a good villain for mysteries involving strange murders or robberies. Second, she’s
useful as “muscle” for villains of greater power, whether they need her for combat duty, spying, or assassination.
To make Menagerie more powerful, give her additional animal forms and/or increase the power of the forms she can already assume. Over time her animal forms may likewise become stronger and tougher, have larger claws and better reflexes, and so forth. She might even develop some half- woman, half-animal forms, like a lycanthrope. If she’s already too powerful for your campaign, take away some of her animal forms; the fewer she has, the more of a one-trick pony she becomes.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Teleios has long pursued Menagerie; he wants samples of her DNA and tissues to experiment with. So far she’s avoided all his snares, but if he ever really focuses on her the odds are he’ll get what he wants.
Kinematik considers Menagerie a “race traitor”; she doesn’t care about his pro-mutant crusade
and rejects him as a blowhard. He won’t go out of his way to punish her, but if their paths ever cross he’ll make her think twice about disrespecting her betters.
Menagerie tends to dislike other villains who try to “copy” or “mock” animals, such as Fenris and Arachne, though she’s not upset enough about it to actively pursue them. (She’s less offended by villains who’ve somehow obtained true animal powers, such as Python and Hornet, though if they got them by experimenting on animals she may hold that against them.) On the other hand, if she ever learns about Dr. Phillippe Moreau (see CV1) and his work creating “manimals,” she’ll be on her way to Monster Island to kill him just as soon as she can arrange a vacation from her day job.
Appearance: Menagerie is a dark-haired woman in her late twenties with a trim, athletic figure.
She doesn’t wear a costume, preferring everyday clothes that allow her to blend in with ordinary people, but often uses a headband to keep her long hair out of her eyes. Depending on her mood, she might subconsciously take on very slight feature traits from one of her animal forms (such as devel- oping an almost unnoticeable point to her ears when she’s feeling “catty” or fussy).


MENAGERIE FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Menagerie if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Menagerie is a supervillainess with the ability to change shape into various animals, including some dangerous ones like a bear, crocodile, rattle- snake, or tiger. She also has a natural rapport with wild animals.
K/R: Menagerie is something of an eco-terrorist, often committing crimes not for money but
to strike back at companies or people she feels despoil
the environment or abuse animals.
-4: Menagerie has a touch of the typical animal’s fear of fire.
-6: Menagerie is a mutant.
-8: Mental Powers that affect the Animal class of minds are particu- larly effective against Menagerie, even when she’s in her human form.
-10: Her Secret Identity is Megan Munro; she’s a renowned veterinary consultant to zoos around the world.

Val Char Cost
MENAGERIE
Roll Notes
400
10
20 20 10
15 10 15 10
Matching Complications (75)
Distinctive Features: Mutant (Not Concealable; Always Noticed; Detectable Only By Unusual Senses)
Hunted: Teleios (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) Physical Complication: can be affected by Mental
Powers that affect either the Human or Animal class
of minds (Infrequently, Slightly Impairing) Psychological Complication: Protective Of Animals And
The Environment (Common, Strong)
Psychological Complication: Pyrophobia (Fear Of Fire)
(Common, Mild)
Social Complication: Secret Identity (Megan Munro)
(Frequently, Major)
Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Mental Powers that affect
Animal minds (Uncommon)
15 STR 23 DEX 20 CON 13 INT 12 EGO 15 PRE
8 OCV 7 DCV
3 OMCV
4 DMCV
6 SPD
5 26 10 3
12- 14- 13- 12-
Lift 200 kg; 3d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 3d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 Total: 11 PD (3 rPD)
Total: 9 ED (3 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 164
18m 12m
8 PD
6 ED 10REC 6
40 END 10 BODY 30 STUN
4 0 5
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0
Movement: Running: Leaping:
Cost Powers
END
5
25 20 0 3 40
12-
2 11-
6 4
85 Animal Forms: Multiform (change into 16 animal forms built on up to 300 Total Points each, see text; true form is human form), Instant Change
6 Swift: Running +6m (18m total)
4 Strong Leaper: Leaping +8m (12m forward,
6m upward)
5 Animal Senses: Nightvision
5 Animal Senses: Tracking for Normal Smell
9 Animal Senses: +3 PER with all Sense Groups
Talents
6 Combat Luck (3 PD/3 ED)
3 Striking Appereance +1/+1d6
Skills
3 Acrobatics 14-
24 Animal Handler (all 13 categories) 17- 3 Breakfall 14-
5 Charm 13-
3 Climbing 14-
3 Concealment 12-
2 CK: Millennium City 11-
2 KS: The Zoo World 11-
2 PS: Veterinarian 11-
3 SS: Biology 12-
4 SS: Veterinary Medicine 13-
5 SS: Zoology 14-
3 Stealth 14-
10 Survival (Desert, Marine, Mountains, Temperate/Subtrop-
ical, Tropical) 12- 3 Tracking 12-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 198 Total Cost: 362

