Background/History: Andrew Strom was an up-and-coming stage magician, and a good
one. But he never acheived the success he felt he deserved, because although he was technically very proficient, he didn’t have the “stage presence” that promotors and club owners looked for. He couldn’t relate to the audience; if anything, he sort of condescended to them. He just wasn’t enjoyable to watch, no matter how skilled his legerdemain.
Strom decided that the problem was that his tricks weren’t good enough. After all, with the right tricks, he could impress anyone no matter how stupid they were! He needed to learn real magic, something that went beyond the simple tricks he used on stage. And of course the place to learn real magic was the Orient.
Strom spent the next several years exploring the Far East in search of someone who could teach him real magic. He spoke with supersti- tious sailors in waterfront dives, monks in isolated monasteries, scholars in universities. Finally a drunken old fallen Buddhist priest whispered in his ear the name Mayahara. Strom headed west, into the Tibetan plateau, and after months of searching he found the elusive Mayahara living atop a desolate mountain peak.
“Come in, my son,” said Mayahara as he entered the old man’s humble cave home. “Only those with the strongest desire and the highest talent can pierce the veil of illusions that guard this place to find me. Rest now; your instruction begins tomorrow.”
For nearly three years Strom studied the magics of illusion and deception at Mayahara’s feet, learning not only how to create illusions anyone could see, but illusions that took place directly in a single person’s mind. When Mayahara pronounced his course of study complete, and him a master of illusion-magic, he set out for home to show the world how easily he could fool it.
Personality/Motivation: Mindgame’s original
goal of becoming a world-famous stage magician faded away during his time of tribulations in the Orient, replaced simply by the twin desires to (a) become rich, and (b) prove how smart he is and how foolish everyone else is. Thus he uses his illu- sion powers to commit crimes, to cause confusion, and even just to play elaborate “practical jokes” on people he dislikes. Befitting a master of illusion and misdirection, he’s intensely secretive, prefer- ring not to say or reveal anything he doesn’t have to (even to his employers or his own henchmen). Trying to wring information out of him, even with torture or Telepathy, is difficult at best. (On the other hand, he can’t stand for other people to have secrets; he loves ferreting them out... and using them against his enemies, if he can.)


Quote: “Am I here... or here? Are you about to achieve victory... or on the edge of defeat?”
Powers/Tactics: Mindgame prefers not to get involved in combat at all — the way he sees it, if someone knows where he is accurately enough
to attack him, he hasn’t done his job properly. He wants to maintain control of the situation at all times with his illusions. He hides himself with Cloak of Illusion (or Illusionary Disguise), then uses his illusions to keep his targets confused, distracted, and unable to do anything but react. If he’s discovered and comes under a serious coun- terattack, he invokes Repositioning (a focused illusion that makes him appear to be somewhere he’s not, so that he’s much harder to hit with an attack) and flees.
Campaign Use: Mindgame requires some delicate handling in the game. His illusion abilities are potent, and players often get frustrated when they have to deal with illusions and trickery rather than flesh-and-blood foes. It may be best to use him sparingly, perhaps as a master villain’s hireling employed to advance one part of a greater scheme, rather than as the main villain of a story.
To make Mindgame more powerful, broaden his psionic powers with some Telepathy and Mind Control. To weaken him, remove his Mental Defense and halve his Combat Skill Levels.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: As a master of true illusions, Mindgame is offended by the supervillainess Mirage, who he feels tries to “copycat” his powers using gadgets, special effects, and other fakery. He doesn’t care enough to go out of his way, but if he ever meets her he’ll show her what real illusions are like.
Although he doesn’t mingle with the Mystic World or know any arcane lore, Mindgame’s powers are magical in nature rather than being purely psionic abilities. As such he’s attracted some attention from a few super-mages, such as the Demonologist (who wonders if he might make a good recruit — willingly or unwillingly — for the Devil’s Advocates).
Appearance: Typically Mindgame uses his powers of illusion to make himself seem tall, handsome, muscular, well-proportioned, and stylishly dressed for the occasion (he never wears a “costume”; if expecting public exposure he usually makes it look like he’s wearing an expensive men’s suit).
In reality he’s 5’5” tall, thin, and could best be described as “plain” — but he still dresses pretty well, since he’s made enough from crime to afford nice clothing.


MINDGAME FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Mindgam if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Mindgame is
a supervillain with illusion powers. He can create large- scale illusions that anyone can perceive, or project an illusion directly into a single target’s mind.
K/R: He can also use his illusion powers to render himself “invisible,” or make it look like he’s standing somewhere he’s not to fool attackers.
-2: Mindgame’s powers are mystical in nature, not true psionic powers.
-10: His Secret Identity is Andrew Strom; he’s a stage magician.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
10 STR 0 11- 18 DEX 16 13- 15 CON 5 12- 15 INT 5 12- 25 EGO 15 14- 20 PRE 10 13-
5 OCV 10 5 DCV 10 7 OMCV 12 7 DMCV 12
5 SPD 30
6 PD 4
6 ED 4 5 REC 1 30END 2 10 BODY 0 24 STUN 2
Movement: Running: Cost Powers
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 6 PD (0 rPD)
Total: 6 ED (0 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 138
12m
60 Illusion Energy: Endurance Reserve (160 END, 30 REC) 0 80 Illusions Of The Mind: Mental Illusions 20d6 10
Unified Power (-1⁄4)
72 Illusions Of The Senses: Images to Sight, Hearing,
Smell/Taste, and Touch Groups, -5 to PER Rolls 4
Area Of Effect (32m Radius; +1), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Unified Power (-1⁄4)
40 Cloak Of Illusion: Invisibility to Sight, Hearing, and Smell/Taste Groups, No Fringe 4
38 Illusionary Disguise: Shape Shift (to Sight, Hearing,
and Touch Groups; any humanoid form), Instant Change, Imitation 2
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Unified Power (-1⁄4) 23 Repositioning: +8 DCV 4
Costs Endurance (-1⁄2), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
15 Mental Warding: Mental Defense (15 points) 0
Perks
10 Money: Wealthy
Talents
5 Resistance (5 points)
END
Skills
18 +6 with Illusions Of The Mind and Illusions Of The Senses
3 Contortionist 13-
1 Forgery (Documents) 12-
Only For Faking Handwriting (-1)
2 AK: The Orient 11-
1 KS: Arcane And Occult Lore 8-
1 KS: The Espionage World 8-
3 KS: Stage Magic 12-
1 Language: Mandarin Chinese (basic conversation; English
is Native)
1 Language: Tibetan (basic conversation)
3 Persuasion 13-
3 PS: Perform Magic Tricks 13-
3 PS: Stage Magician 13-
3 Sleight Of Hand 13-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Streetwise 13-
2 Survival (Temperate/Subtropical, Mountains) 8- Total Powers & Skills Cost: 394
Total Cost: 532
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Hunted: CIA (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
15 Psychological Complication: Secretive; Likes To Keep
Information To Himself (Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Loves To Make Fools Of
Others (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Andrew Strom)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 132

