Background/History: “What do you mean, I’m being fired?!?”
“I’m sorry, Jess, but that’s the way it’s gotta be.”
“Why? I’m the best special effects and stunts person you’ve got! I can run rings around those other guys.”
“Yeah, you’re right. But you’re not superhuman, are you?”
“Well... no.”
“See, that’s the thing. There’s this agency now that hires out low-powered superhumans for stunts and things. You may be good, but you can’t survive a fall from the top of a building with no safety net, the way these guys can. You’re good, but even with all your tricks, you can’t fake that sort of thing. Besides, we get an enormous break on our insurance if we replace you with these SuperStunts guys.”
“Fine. If that’s how it is, go right ahead and hire those freaks. But you’re going to regret it!” As she left, she slammed the door so hard that pictures fell off the wall.
Damn superhumans! It was getting so an ordinary person, even a talented one, couldn’t do anything without having some superhuman come along and replace him. Well, they weren’t so tough or smart — and she was going to prove it!

Personality/Motivation: Mirage’s contempt for superhumans drives her to prove that she’s better than they are. She commits crimes only to obtain the money she needs to fund her latest scheme to make a monkey out of some prominent hero or villain. As far as she’s concerned, if they can’t figure out her puzzles or get out of her traps, they’re not really so super after all, and they deserve what they get.
Quote: “Not so tough now, huh, hero?”
Powers/Tactics: Mirage’s powers derive from holographic and optical technology built into her costume. These devices allow her to project highly realistic images with visual, audio, and olfactory components. They’re obviously fake if touched, but she’s extremely clever at setting them up to fool heroes and hide traps. Mirage can also use her illusions to “change shape” to hide in a crowd or look like someone else, or make it appear as if she’s not even there. Additionally, she’s got her Hallu- cination Spray, a mist so finely atomized it gets through even hermetically-sealed protection (i.e., having Life Support [Self-Contained Breathing] offers no defense). It causes the victim to experi- ence vivid, and often terrifying, hallucinations; Mirage cannot control what the victim “sees and experiences” during these episodes.
Mirage can’t possibly stand up to a superhero in one-on-one combat, and she knows it. But that doesn’t bother her — her whole raison d’etre is to prove that ordinary humans can be just as good
as supers even without powers. She uses her wits and elaborate plans to lure heroes into traps where she can threaten and humiliate them. To set up her traps, Mirage uses her Bag Of Tricks Variable Power Pool. With it she can construct deathtraps like the ones on pages 231-32 of Champions (though with fewer Active Points, unless you choose to ignore the standard rules in the interest of the story), robots to attack the PCs, and so forth. She also uses it for gadgets and weapons specifically designed to overcome an opponent’s powers. Try to think of clever, creative uses for it.
If discovered or overcome, Mirage attempts
to flee by covering herself with an illusion (i.e., activating her Invisibility) and creeping away with Stealth. She loathes the thought of losing to pompous costumed jerks, so she always tries to have multiple escape routes available. She realizes she won’t win every time, but as long as she isn’t captured she counts it as a moral victory.
Because Mirage’s costume contains so much gadgetry, exposure to electricity causes short circuits and feedback which hurt her. She’ll do her best to stay out of the way of any lightning- powered superheroes.
Campaign Use: Mirage is good for a change of pace from the usual conquer-the-world or rob- the-bank sorts of supervillains. She’s not interested in money or power; she wants revenge against a Superhuman World that she genuinely believes is far more harmful to ordinary humans than most people believe. She’ll create elaborate schemes to snare the PCs and draw them into her web of traps

Val Char Cost Roll
15 STR 5 12- 20 DEX 20 13- 15 CON 5 12- 23 INT 13 14- 18 EGO 8 13- 25 PRE 15 14-
7 OCV 20 7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0 6 DMCV 9
5 SPD 30
6 PD 4
7 ED 5
6 REC 2 30END 2 10 BODY 0 30 STUN 5
Notes
Lift 200 kg; 3d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 14- PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 12 PD (6 rPD)
Total: 13 ED (6 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 163
12m
Skills
24 +2 Overall
3 Acrobatics 13- 3 Acting 14-
3 Breakfall 13- 3 Bugging 14-
3 Charm 14-
3 Computer Programming 14-
3 Concealment 14-
3 Conversation 14-
3 Demolitions 14-
3 Disguise 14-
3 Electronics 14-
8 Forgery (Documents, Money, Art Objects, Commercial
Goods) 14- 3 High Society 14-
3 Inventor 14-
2 CK: Toronto 11-
2 CK: Vancouver 11-
2 KS: Poetry 11-
4 KS: The Superhuman World 15- 3 KS: Superpowers 14-
3 Mimicry 14-
3 Persuasion 14-
3 SS: Chemistry 14-
3 SS: Holography 14-
3 SS: Optics 14-
3 SS: Physics 14-
3 Security Systems 14-
3 Shadowing 14-
3 Sleight Of Hand 13-
7 Stealth 15-
3 Systems Operation 14-
3 Tactics 14-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 420 Total Cost: 583
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Hunted: the Champions (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Psychological Complication: Hates Superhumans
(Common, Strong)
5 Rivalry: Professional (with Utility; see text)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Jesse Turnbull)
(Frequently, Major)
15 Susceptibility: to electrical attacks, takes 1d6 instantly
while wearing her costume (Very Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 183
Movement: Cost Powers
Running:
MIRAGE
107 Bag Of Tricks: Variable Power Pool (Gadget Pool),
80 Pool + 80 Control Cost var VPP Can Only Be Changed In Lab/Arsenal (-1⁄2)
84 Illusions: Multipower, 105-point reserve All IIF (-1⁄4)
17v 1) Hologram Generator: Sight, Hearing, and Smell/
Taste Group Images, -5 to PER Rolls 0
Area Of Effect (64m Radius; +11⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2), Persistent (+1⁄4); IIF (-1⁄4)
5v 2) Hallucination Spray: Mental Illusions 20d6 [8] IIF (-1⁄4), Based On CON (-1), No Conscious Control
(-1), Normal Limited Range (6m; -1⁄2), 8 Charges (-1⁄2)
11v 3) Cloak Of Illusion: Invisibility to Sight, Hearing, and
Smell/Taste Groups, No Fringe 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2), Persistent (+1⁄4); IIF (-1⁄4)
39 Illusionary Disguise: Shape Shift (to Sight Group;
any humanoid form), Instant Change, Imitation 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2), Persistent (+1⁄4); IIF (Hologram Generator; -1⁄4)
12 Armored Costume: Resistant Protection (6 PD/6 ED) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
6 Observant: +2 PER with all Sense Groups 0
Perks
3 Anonymity
4 2 Deep Covers
8 Money: Wealthy

and terror so she can show them how weak and helpless they really are. Since she normally works by herself, give her whatever she needs — Bases, Vehicles, robots, or the like — to make her a chal- lenging opponent, even if she runs out of Gadget Pool points.
To make Mirage more powerful, give her some additional abilities, such as: a fully Indirect (+1) Blast Linked to her Illusions power, so her holograms can fire energy beams at targets from any direction; a teleporter (Teleportation); or an Intangibility Web built into her costume (Deso- lidification). Of course, you could simply let her build these with her Bag Of Tricks, but that tends to make her more of a “combat machine” than she’s supposed to be. To make her weaker, reduce her Gadget Pool to 50 points, get rid of some
of her Skills (or convert them to Familiarities/ Proficiencies), and reduce the Active Points in her Multipower reserve.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Mirage has had an on-again, off-again romantic relation-
ship with Utility for years. Drawn together by their mutual dislike of superhumans and love of showing their “normal human” superiority over them, they’ve committed many a crime together and in their better periods even considered getting married a time or two. Unfortunately, their respective egos and desire to outdo one another ultimately get in the way and break them up... until something happens to start the whole cycle of attraction/rivalry all over again.
Mirage usually prefers to keep to herself,
but she’s occasionally worked with or for other villains. For example, she was part of Interface’s elaborate 2003 scheme to study and then defeat the Champions. He was easy to work with and paid well; she’d gladly take another job from him.
VIPER and ARGENT are both interested in Mirage; they want her hologram technology. Neither of them actively Hunts her yet, but it could easily come to that if one of them decides it needs her devices right away.
Mirage despises Bastion Alpha Security, Trans-City Construction, and any other firms
that use superhuman labor — “It’s companies
like this that make it impossible for hardworking normal people to get jobs.” When she doesn’t have anything better to do she vandalizes their facilities, interferes with their operations, and finds other ways to show the people who hire them what a mistake it is to rely on “super-temps.”
Appearance: Mirage’s costume covers her entire body so she can project holograms that cover her entire form. It’s a royal blue bodysuit, with a collar high enough to come up to her nose, a full-face mask with goggles, and a blue cape somewhat like an Inverness cloak.
Out of her costume, Jesse Turnbull is a pretty woman in her late twenties with the build and muscles of a disciplined athlete. Her hair is long and light brown (fading to blonde-ish in the summer- time), and her eyes green. She still has just a trace of her native Canadian accent and speech patterns.

MIRAGE FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Mirage if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Mirage is a supervillainess with illusion powers. She can create large- scale illusions or phantasms only
a single person experiences.
K/R: Mirage doesn’t have innate illusion powers; she does
it all with gadgets, hallucinatory chemi- cals, and trickery.
-1: Mirage really dislikes superhu- mans; she commits crimes largely to prove that she’s better and smarter than they are, despite not having superpowers.
-4: Mirage and Utility have had an on-again, off-again romantic relation- ship for years.
-8: If Mirage is hit with an Electricity attack, the devices in her costume shock her, causing intense pain.
-10: Her Secret Identity is Jesse Turnbull; she used to be a stuntwoman and special effects expert until she lost her job to super- human stuntmen.

