Background/History: “Brother Germaine, kneel before the Inner Circle!”
On trembling legs, Stephen Germaine knelt. His whole body was shaking. To be summoned before the Inner Circle itself! What had he done? What were they going to do to him?
“Brother Germaine, the Inner Circle has need of you. The Morbanes have cast horoscopes,
and their divinations show that you were born
at just the right moment to be the subject of the most powerful demon-binding DEMON has yet attempted. You will go at once with these Initiates to the Sacrificial Chamber, that the ritual may be performed.”
“I hear, and obey,” said Germaine, hardly daring to believe his good fortune. He wasn’t being punished at all! The Morbanes were going to give him great powers — temporary ones, to be sure, but powers nonetheless.
The Ritual of Imbuement went as it had a hundred times before, though Germaine had no way of knowing that. When the pain subsided, he found that his body had been merged with that of some diabolic entity. Gone was his puny human flesh, replaced by demonic sinew of great strength. In his right hand was a chain, and at the end of that chain a large, spiked metal ball — a morningstar.
The Morbanes soon discovered that something unusual had happened. Instead of fading away

after a few hours, Germaine’s powers remained. Somehow, the temporary effects of the Ritual had become permanent! They didn’t understand it, but they knew how to make use of this new weapon that had fallen into their hands. From that point forward, Brother Germaine — or Morningstar, as he was now called — served DEMON even more faithfully than before, for the Ritual bound him to DEMON’s service with chains not even his great strength could break. He smashed what the Inner Circle told him to smash, slew those upon whom the Morbanes pronounced doom, and battled the so-called “superheroes” who would destroy his masters. But he soon began to chafe at this slavery; someone with his power should be free to do as he chose!
And then, a wondrous thing happened. While battling UNITY with several other DEMON supervillains, he and the Morbane in charge of
the group were attacked by Dr. White and Dr. Black, the UNTIL superteam’s resident mystics. Somehow, the attack severed the control spell DEMON maintained on him; all at once, he was free! Without a second thought, he fled into the night, eager to escape the clutches of DEMON and begin fighting for his own gain.
Personality/Motivation: When Stephen Germaine’s petty human body and mind were bound up with a war-devil in DEMON’s Ritual of Imbuement, he gained much of the devil’s nature to go along with his existing criminal tenden- cies. Instead of possessing a simple desire for lots of money and an easy life, he now hungers for conquest, riches, glory, and power. Battle, and triumph in battle, are the keys to these things, and he fights with a fierce joy. He often has difficulty leaving a fight (even if he’s losing and knows he should flee) because he revels in combat so much.
Quote: “A bothersome fly such as you needs swatting.”
Powers/Tactics: Morningstar’s powers are a result of the merging of a human form with the body and spirit of a war-devil through a DEMON ritual. The result is a hybrid being possessing the enor- mous strength and resilience of the devil, with the intelligence and cleverness of the human.
In battle, Morningstar typically relies upon his namesake weapon, using it to smash anyone who gets in his way. It’s an Unbreakable Focus, and he values it above all other things; he typically flies into a berserk rage and attacks anyone who takes it from him. But that’s not all he can do. He’s well- versed at using his enormous strength for “power stunts”; this ability is simulated by applying the Variable Advantage Advantage to his 50 STR. For example, he can clap his hands together to create a seismic shockwave (Explosion), use his fists
in a way that breaks through armor more easily (Armor Piercing), hit someone multiple times (Autofire), and so on. As a default, he assigns the Variable Advantage to Reduced Endurance (0 END) (though he won’t do that if he plans to Push, of course).

Morningstar looks, and often acts, like a fright- ening, mindless brute, which leads his opponents to underestimate him. In truth, he’s clever and tactically aware, with a healthy dose of human smarts tinged by diabolic guile. He may “play dumb” to get a foe in position for a Surprise Move, but otherwise he fights intelligently and well.
Morningstar no longer has a human form; he’s trapped in his quasi-demonic shape forever. For this reason, he has no Social Complication regarding his identity; it’s neither public nor concealable.
Campaign Use: Morningstar is a good mercenary villain, suitable for employment by more powerful supercriminals (like Holocaust) or allying with other villains. A team lacking a “brick” might find him a perfect candidate for membership. If you want to use him as the focus of a story, you might delve into how he broke free from DEMON’s control (that sort of thing hasn’t happened before, or since), or deal with the consequences of his diabolic half becoming more powerful (and thus more out of control).
To make Morningstar more powerful, increase the Advantages for his Brick Tricks power (to +1, or more), or give him some additional “brick tricks” built with other powers. You could also make his morningstar do Double Knockback, or increase his STR or SPD. If he’s already too tough for your campaign, reduce his defenses, SPD, and HA, or get rid of the Brick Tricks ability.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Morning- star has often worked as a villain for hire, though he seems to prefer employers who have at least some association with the Mystic World to purely mundane ones. For example, he’s worked for the Devil’s Advocates, though he and Tartarus don’t seem to get along so well (the Demonologist might consider him as a potential recruit for the Advocates if he can resolve that situation). He’s also done jobs for a few Sylvestris and Vandaleurs over the years, and has teamed up with such solo villains as Black Paladin, Fenris, and Zorran the Artificer on mutually profitable enterprises.
Appearance: Morningstar is a strange, and in many ways hideous, cross between man and war-devil. His head and face have a look some- times described as “demonically leonine,” with
a thick mane of black hair surrounding features with a slightly feline cast to them (including two tiny upward-pointing fangs visible even when
his mouth is shut). His body looks like a burly, heavily-muscled human form with reddish-grey skin, garbed in a sort of rusty demonic plate armor, but in fact the “armor” is his demonic skin. The “armor” doesn’t have gauntlets; it ends in bracer-like formations on the wrist. He carries his morningstar, a heavy chain about four feet long with a large spiked ball on the end, in his right hand.

Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
8 OCV 25 7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0 6 DMCV 9
5 SPD 25 PD
30
23
25 ED
20 REC 16 60END 8 25 BODY 15 66 STUN 23
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
END
3
23
13 Morningstar: HA +6d6
OAF (-1), Hand-To-Hand Attack (-1⁄4)
33 Brick Tricks: Variable Advantage (+1⁄2 Advantages; +1) on 50 STR 5 Requires A Brick Tricks Roll (-1⁄2)
18 Demonic Armor: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 18 PD/18 ED 0 5 Demonic Body: Power Defense (5 points) 0 10 Demonic Limbs: Running +10m (22m total) 1 5 Demonic Eyes: Infrared Perception (Sight Group) 0
Skills
24 +3 HTH
4 +2 OCV with Morningstar
2 KS: DEMON 11-
3 Power: Brick Tricks 19-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Teamwork 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 123 Total Cost: 423
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Distinctive Features: Aura Of Utter Evil (Not Concealable; Causes Extreme Reaction [abject fear])
20 Enraged: if his morningstar is taken from him (Common), go 11-, recover 11-
25 Enraged: Berserk if takes BODY (Uncommon), go 11-, recover 11-
20 Hunted: DEMON (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 10 Hunted: Trismegistus Council (Infrequently, As Pow,
Capture)
10 Psychological Complication: Love Of Battle (Common,
Moderate)
10 Psychological Complication: Hunger For Power And
Riches (Common, Moderate)
30 Susceptibility: to holy places/objects, takes 2d6 STUN
and BODY per Turn (Uncommon)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 23
MORNINGSTAR FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Morningstar if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Morningstar is a super-strong, demonic supervillain who wields a large, spiked ball-and-chain weapon.
K/R: Experts estimate that Morningstar’s strong enough to lift approximately 25 metric tons.
-1: DEMON is eager to capture or recruit Morningstar. -2: Morningstar loves to fight, often continuing to battle
even when it would be smarter or safer to flee.
-6: Morningstar feels pain when exposed to holy objects or places.
-8: Morningstar may become uncontrollably enraged if injured.
-10: Morningstar used to be Stephen Germaine, a Brother in DEMON; he was given his demonic powers, and trans- formed into a demonic being, by a DEMON ritual.


