Background/History: The supervillainess the world calls Morph isn’t even human. Unbe- knownst to anyone — including herself — she comes from a dimension called Xargann whose advanced and sophisticated people naturally possess shapeshifting powers. A Xargann scientist, eager to experience life among the “unchanging” whom she’d viewed in her transdimensionscope, designed a device to transport her to Earth by causing her to be born to a human woman and grow up a human child.
But two things went wrong with her plan.
The first was a rival scientist who, jealous of her accomplishments, sabotaged the transporter device. As a result, Morph was born and grew up without ever accessing the knowledge of her true self and background which she’d “programmed” into her mind. Second, knowing little of Earth, she chose her host family poorly. Rather than picking a pair of responsible, mature, loving parents, she ended up with Rob and Cindy Markham, two of the most selfish people imaginable. Rob was a four-time loser with a record of petty (and occa- sionally not-so-petty) crime as long as his arm, Cindy a prostitute and junkie.
Growing up in that sort of “family,” it’s not surprising that “Tabitha Markham” learned to look out for herself pretty fast. When her native shapechanging abilities manifested at age 13 (as “programmed”), she realized right away they
were her meal ticket. At 15 she ran away from home, supporting herself with the proceeds of
the robberies she could effortlessly pull with her powers. By the time she was 18 she was a well- known member of the Superhuman World, code- named Morph. She’s been captured three times, and once Stronghold even kept her imprisoned for almost six months... but inevitably she finds a way to use her powers to free herself and plague the world once more.
Personality/Motivation: There’s little to like about Morph. Selfish and greedy, she assumes everyone she meets will try to screw her over if they can... and so, in a self-fulfilling prophecy, her suspicion and thinly-veiled hostility tend to make people dislike and betray her. She prefers to work alone when she can (and is powerful enough to do
so), though she occasionally takes high-paying jobs from master villains and organizations like VIPER.
Quote: “I’m “in shape” for any job you got. But I get paid up front.”
Powers/Tactics: Morph is a true physical meta- morph with absolute control over her body’s shape and substance. She can’t assume energy or gaseous forms, nor any form that involves moving parts or a chemical reaction (for example, she can’t change herself into a lightning bolt, a working pistol, or a motor), and she can’t alter her density or opacity, but aside from that her powers are unrestricted.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
Talents
5 Eidetic Memory
Skills
32 +4 HTH
2 KS: The Superhuman World 11-
15 Power: Shapechanging/Stretching Tricks 18- 3 Stealth 13-
3 Streetwise 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 525
Total Cost: 705
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: UNTIL (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Psychological Complication: Ruthless And Greedy
(Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Tabitha Markham)
(Frequently, Major) 5 Unluck: 1d6
10 Vulnerability: 2 x Effect from Transforms and other attacks that involuntarily change her shape or form (Uncommon)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 305
15 STR 5 12- 20 DEX 20 13- 25 CON 15 14- 15 INT 5 12- 10 EGO 0 11- 20 PRE 10 13-
7 OCV 20 7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0 3 DMCV 0
Lift 200 kg; 3d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 Total: 25 PD (15 rPD)
Total: 23 ED (15 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 180
12m
6 SPD 10 PD
40
8
8 ED
8 REC 4 50END 6 20 BODY 10 42 STUN 11
Movement: Running: Cost Powers
6
272 Morphic Powers: Variable Power Pool
(Shapechanging Pool), 200 Pool + 60 Control Cost var Cosmic (+2); Shapechanging Abilities Only
(see text; -1⁄4)
37 Malleable Form: Stretching 10m, x8 bodily dimensions 0 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
45 Resilient Form: Resistant Protection (15 PD/15 ED) 0 60 Resilient Form: Physical and Energy Damage
Reduction, 50%, Resistant 0 15 Malleable Mind: Mental Defense (15 points) 0 36 No Internal Organs: Life Support (Diminished Eating:
no need to eat; Diminished Sleeping: no need
to sleep; Immunity: to all terrestrial biological weapons, chemical weapons, diseases, and
poisons; Self-Contained Breathing) 0
END
Appearance: Morph can have any appearance she wants, obviously, but usually favors her “true” form: a beautiful Caucasian woman who looks like she’s about 21 years old with dusky skin, short, dark hair, dark eyes, and a slender, well-proportioned figure. Her “costume” (actually just part of her body) consists of leather-looking pants, belly-baring and decolletage-displaying shortsleeved top, and bracers.

She can distort her body with Stretching, flaw- lessly imitate other people right down to the cellular level with Shape Shift, accurately mimic animals with Multiform, form parts of her body into melee weapons, transform her flesh into stone or metal, and so forth. See the “Shape Alteration Powers” section of Champions Powers for dozens of possible powers she could buy with her Power Pool; some of her favorites include Arms Into Blades and Body Of Metal (from the “Earth And Stone Powers” section).
In combat, Morph usually opens up with something spectacular, like transforming her body to stone or metal and then making her fist enormous to smash people with, or using Growth to become gigantic and powerful. She’ll follow her initial attack with a Presence Attack in the hope of cowing her opponents. If that doesn’t work, she’ll become more subtle, using her powers to keep her opponents off-balance and attack in the most effective way possible. If things go bad, escape is just a little Extra-Dimensional Movement (to the Microverse) or Desolidification (“stretching” to ooze through small openings) away.
Campaign Use: Morph is an all-purpose shapechanger who gives the GM access to what- ever metamorphic abilities he needs to make a plot work right. She can be tough enough to take on an entire team of heroes if necessary (especially if you use her Variable Power Pool to beef up her Damage Reduction).
To strengthen Morph, give her more powers outside her Variable Power Pool so she’s not entirely dependent on the VPP. A little Growth, Shrinking, or Shape Shift that she can then augment with her Pool frees up more points for defenses and attacks. To weaken her, get rid of her Stretching (requiring her to buy it with the VPP) and her Damage Reduction, and perhaps reduce her SPD to 5.


MORPH FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Morph if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: Morph is a metamorphic supervillainess able to change her shape in nearly any way. She can transform her body into animal forms or into other materials (like metals or liquids), flawlessly imitate the appearance of other people, and the like. There seem to be few limits on her shapechanging powers; she can even stretch and distort her body.
K/R: Morph cannot assume energy or gaseous shapes, nor shapes involving moving parts or chemical reactions (such as working machines).
-1: Morph cannot alter her own density or opacity.
-8: Causing Morph to involuntarily change form — for example, by using a Transform on her — causes her pain.
-10: Her secret identity is Tabitha Markham.

