Background/History: A five-year investigation was finally coming to an end. Five years of high-speed pursuits, endless stakeouts, boring labwork, and countless interviews with snitches and lowlifes. It was all about to pay off. Tayina Mathet u-Vareeta Hoki activated her Force-Shield and smashed in the door.
“Freeze, Shamareeth!” she yelled, her Throm- balic Blasts at the ready. “I arrest you in the name of the Republic!”
Shamareeth was across the room, standing in front of some... portal. That was the only word she could think of for it. It was an asymmetrical arch, filled with corruscating purplish energies. Banks of equipment stood nearby; the technicians moni- toring them quickly raised their arms. Shama- reeth, looking blurred as usual, laughed. “Not
this time, I think, Mathet. I have found a way to escape you and your foolish comrades forever. My only sadness is that I shall never again know the joy of tormenting you with your inability to stop me. Farewell!” With that he turned and headed straight for the archway.
“No!” Hoki shouted, swooping toward him with her Force-Flight. She grabbed him, intending to pull him back from the brink, but as he strug- gled, he slipped, and suddenly they both plunged through the purple veil.
Colors, thousands of them, colliding in her brain. Sounds, a cacophony of them, shrieking in her ears. Dizziness, disorientation, nausea, pain. Then a tremendous impact, and nothing.
She awoke a few minutes later... or it seemed like a few minutes, she couldn’t really tell. Shama- reeth was nowhere to be seen — but that wasn’t surprising, he’d been prepared for this trip and had no doubt recovered quicker.
She became aware that some... people... were staring at her. They looked very odd, nothing like any Republic species she had ever seen or heard of. Some were very short; children, perhaps?
One of the children took a step toward her. “Are you a superhero?” he asked, with what she assumed was his face contorting oddly. She
was amazed she understood him; somehow the passage through the portal had changed her mind so she could speak the language of this place.
“No, child, I am but a humble crimefighter,” she said, staggering to her feet to look around. She saw stone-and-glass buildings, moving metal things belching smoke, humanoids wearing what appeared to be organic clothings. Clearly, she was far away from home.
“A superhero!” the child said, obviously pleased and not understanding what she’d said. Maybe
she didn’t speak this garish language as well as she thought.
Just then an alarm when off at the bank across the street. With a mad cackle, a red-and-black garbed figure smashed his way out through a transparent wall, with a bag in each of his hands.

Val Char Cost
Roll
15- 14- 14- 12- 11- 13-
Notes
Lift 1,600 kg; 6d6 HTH damage [3]
30 STR 23 DEX 25 CON 13 INT 11 EGO 20 PRE
20 26 15
3
1 10
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 Total: 27 PD (15 rPD)
Total: 30 ED (15 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 220
12m 30m
8 OCV 25 8 DCV 25
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
6 SPD 12 PD
40
10
15 ED 11REC 7 80 END 12 10 BODY 0 40 STUN 10
NEBULA
Appearance: Nebula is a
female of the Yuun’ta species
of the Andromeda Galaxy. She’s humanoid but clearly not Human, and beautiful not only after the fashion of her own people but to most Human eyes as well. Her Tel’narian Guard uniform is a black bodysuit with gold boots, belt, and helmet. On her hands and arms she wears her dreaded Duress Gauntlets. Made of a gold metal, they reach most of the way up to her elbow, but are slightly longer on top than on bottom. On the top, near the back end, is set an oval-shaped, facetless blue gem about two inches long on its long axis; the gem glows eerily when the Gauntlets are in use.
Her thrombalic energy powers have a purple or purple-silver color, though this may vary slightly depending on her mood.
Skills
24 +2 Overall
4 +2 with Flight
3 Computer Programming 12-
3 Criminology 12-
2 AK: Andromeda Galaxy 11-
2 KS: Shreegasha Music 11-
11 KS: The Supreme Code Of Justice 20-
3 KS: Criminals Of The Andromeda Galaxy 11-
3 Language: English (completely fluent; Yuun’ta is Native) 2 PS: Galactic Law Enforcement Officer 11-
3 Stealth 14-
3 Tactics 12-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 279 Total Cost: 499
400 Matching Complications (75)
15 Enraged: if someone tries to stop her from doing her duty to enforce the law (Common), go 11-, recover 14-
25 Hunted: the Champions (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
25 Hunted: NASA (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 10 Physical Complication: Utterly Alien Physiology (-10 to all medical and related rolls to heal or help her)
(Infrequently, Slightly Impairing)
25 Psychological Complication: Must Enforce Her People’s
Laws (Very Common, Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Hunting Vibron (Common,
Strong)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (u-Vareeta Hoki)
(Frequently, Major)
20 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Milky Way Galaxy Chemi-
cals/Gases/Poisons (Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 99
Movement: Running: Flight:
Cost Powers
END
5
2
6 6 2 5
0 0 0 0 0
13
37 Duress Gauntlets: Multipower, 55-point reserve All OIF (-1⁄2)
4f 1) Imprisonment: Extra-Dimensional Movement (single location in Duress; see text)
Usable As Attack (defense is Teleportation or Extra-Dimensional Movement; +11⁄4), Ranged (+1⁄2); OIF (-1⁄2)
3f 2) Tractor Beam: Telekinesis (20 STR), Fine Manipulation
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); OIF (-1⁄2)
62 Thrombalic Energy Manipulation: Multipower, 62-point reserve
4f 1) Merciful Thrombalic Sword: Blast 12d6 No Range (-1⁄2)
4f 2) Deadly Thrombalic Sword: RKA 4d6 No Range (-1⁄2)
6f 3) Thrombalic Blast: Blast 10d6 Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
5f 4) Nebula Field: Drain STUN 3d6
Area Of Effect (8m Radius; +1⁄2), Personal
Immunity (+1⁄4)
30 Force-Shield: Resistant Protection (15 PD/15 ED) OIF (costume; -1⁄2)
5 Force-Shield: Mental Defense (8 points) OIF (costume; -1⁄2)
3 Force-Shield: Power Defense (5 points) OIF (costume; -1⁄2)
23 Force-Shield: Life Support: Total OIF (costume; -1⁄2)
30 Force-Flight: Flight 30m
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OIF (costume; -1⁄2)


“Blackfire!” someone shouted, and the crowd began to run away, screaming for help. Even on this strange world, it took no special intuition for Tayina Mathet Hoki to know when duty called.
“Halt, evildoer!” she shouted. “Surrender, and your time in Duress shall be short. Fight, and you shall never again be seen in this reality.” Only a fool would choose the second option, knowing (as did everyone in the Republic) the powers of the Tel’narian Guard.
“Stuff it, sister!” the man in the black and red clothing replied. “No one stops Blackfire!” Drop- ping the bags, he pointed his arms at her and shot a bolt of fire. She stepped to the side, avoiding the brunt of it, her Force-Shield absorbing the rest.
“So be it. By the power of Republic and the authority of the Tel’narian Guard, I sentence you to Duress for eternity.” With fist clenched, she pointed her gauntlet at him. Strange energies began to shimmer around it, then around him.
“Hey, what... no, wait... Noooooooooo!!” he shouted, as he suddenly flashed like a photo- graphic negative... and then vanished. The few wisps of smoke that marked his passing were quickly blown apart by the breeze. She flew away, eager to find the nearest Guard station and resume the hunt for Shamareeth.
It didn’t take long for her to realize she wasn’t on Debrel IV anymore. In fact, she wasn’t even sure if she was in the right galaxy anymore. This just didn’t feel like “home.”
It only took a little while longer for one of this world’s champions to approach her. Garbed as gaudily as the criminal she’d sentenced, he asked to speak with her. Word of her confrontation with the criminal had apparently spread — by newsnet, no doubt — and he wanted to know what had happened. As she gave her report, the funny look on his face became more and more extreme. Perhaps he was not feeling well.
“You... sent him to... another dimension?” he finally stammered when she’d finished.
“Yes, to Duress, pursuant to my powers as a member of the Tel’narian Guard.”
“And when does he... return?”
“Never. The penalty for attacking a member of the Guard is eternal exile.”
“And in this “Duress” place, what happens to him?”
“The Keepers inflict pain upon him, in accordance with the Republic’s Code of Supreme Justice.”
“So you sentenced him to eternal torment... for a bank robbery?”
“No, the robbery only entails a penalty of 50 years. He received the maximum sentence for attacking a member of the Guard, as I said.”
The discussion only went downhill from there. He was apparently offended by something she’d said or done, and he tried to apprehend her — “for her own good,” he said. Another attack. She confined him to Duress as well.


A few more days in this strange place, studying the local customs and conditions, convinced her Shamareeth had journeyed to some barbarian backwater and brought her along. These people were primitive in the extreme; they certainly didn’t understand the Supreme Code, or the need for it, at all — which was all the more odd because crime seemed rampant here. There were more costumed people, some of whom seemed similar to the Guard, though much less disciplined or effec-
tive. She soon learned these people were called “superheroes.”
Lacking any means to get home on her own, Hoki decided to become one of these “superhe- roes” as she looked for Shamareeth, who might know how to create another portal and return to Debrel. But it soon became apparent the costumed heroes didn’t understand police work. They kept getting upset when she sentenced criminals to Duress; many of them even tried to stop her! That’s when she realized it was going to take a long time to enlighten these barbarians....
Personality/Motivation: Nebula (the name comes from the starry-field appearance of one of her powers) is an alien from the Andromeda Galaxy. She’s a member of the Tel’narian Guard, a group of superpowered police officers working for a government she refers to simply as “the Republic.” Through advanced genetic and bioneural engi- neering, the Republic has hard-wired her to understand and enforce the Code of Supreme Justice (a.k.a. “the Supreme Code”), a body of criminal and penological laws that prescribe harsh punishments for even the most trivial of offenses. She believes, with a faith as strong as that of the most pious saint, and logic as invio- lable as a computer’s, that she’s appointed and authorized to enforce the Supreme Code. The draconian nature of the Code — which allows her to administer death via combat or execution, or sentence offenders to a hellish, torment-filled artificial dimension called the Duress — puts her at odds with most superheroes on Earth. Many of them have tried to capture or stop her; more than a few of them have found themselves in Duress for “assaulting a duly authorized member of the Tel’narian Guard.”
For her part, she’s shocked and dismayed
that her new home has so little understanding of the law, or what must be done to enforce it; she regards Humans and Human institutions as child- like (at best). She’s put a lot of effort into under- standing Earth culture (not an easy thing to do when you’re both trying to capture criminals, and trying not to be captured yourself); she’s become quite familiar with Human customs over the years. And as far as she’s concerned, the “primitive Humans” need to be shown, by her example, how to go about enforcing the law and ensuring public safety.
Quote: “By the power of Republic and the authority of the Tel’narian Guard, I sentence you to Duress for eternity.”

Powers/Tactics: Nebula is a mutant member of a species she calls the Yuun’ta. She doesn’t register on Human mutant detectors because she is not Human. In fact, her physiology is so different from that of Humans, or Milky Way Galaxy species in general, that even experienced xenobiologists have difficulty analyzing or treating her. Her powers involve the manipulation of thromba, a sort of personal energy field natural to her people. Most Yuun’ta have barely-detectable thromba fields;
hers is so strong she can form energy-swords from it, project energy bolts, and even create fields of thrombalic energy that weaken everyone in them.
As a member of the Tel’narian Guard, Nebula wears a special costume interwoven with tech- nology that generates a protective energy-screen around her body and allows her to fly. But her most important piece of equipment are her Duress Gauntlets, with which she transports criminals
to an alternate dimension called Duress. As she explains it, Duress was constructed by Yuun’ta engineers decades ago as the ultimate prison. No one sent there has ever found a way to leave it before his sentence has expired. While there he cannot die from starvation or exposure, but the Keepers (guards) impose tortures related to the crimes he committed. Additionally, the “inmates” often fight among themselves, sometimes maiming or killing each other. The Duress Gaunt- lets are Personal Foci; only Nebula can use them. (The same applies to her costume, which generates a protective force-shield.)
In combat, Nebula prefers to rely upon
her Thrombalic Energy powers, particularly
her Merciful Sword. If she can’t close to HTH Combat range, she’ll use her Thrombalic Blast or Tractor Beam instead, or sometimes perform Move Bys/Throughs. The Duress Gauntlets are to be used only after she has the opportunity to pass sentence, which requires a Phase of solemn pronouncements.
Campaign Use: Nebula should present an interesting moral dilemma for most PCs. She’s unquestionably a hero; her life-risking conduct
to save innocents from harm should demonstrate that to them. But because she allocates to herself the power to act as judge, jury, and executioner — and to impose a punishment that seems extraor- dinarily harsh to most “four-color” superheroes — they’re likely to find themselves at odds with her. What to do?
Nebula could also serve as a plot hook for adventures involving Vibron, or perhaps other criminals from the Andromeda Galaxy. He might not be the only one who devises a method to “get way from it all.” Since the Andromeda Galaxy is about 22 million light-years from Earth, it’s pretty much a one-way trip, leaving Earth’s heroes to have to deal with a bunch of villains from beyond.
If Nebula isn’t powerful enough for your campaign (an important consideration if
you intend to pit her against the entire PC
team for at least one scenario), increase her Characteristics (STR 50, DEX 30, CON 30, SPD 8)
and her Multipower reserve and slots (to 90-120 points); you could also give her more slots, and perhaps some other stand-alone powers. If she’s too tough, try to scale her down to about 350 total points by decreasing her Characteristics (STR 20, DEX 20, CON 20, SPD 5) and other powers.
Nebula isn’t going to Hunt superheroes; even if they fight her, she’s not such a slave to the Code of Supreme Justice that she’s going to go out of her way to exile them to Duress (she might very well do that after defeating them in combat, though). She spends most of her time trying to track down Vibron (and other Andromedan criminals, if you create them), and generally fighting crime and doing good deeds.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Nebula
of course has a pre-existing relationship with Shamareeth, better known on Earth as Vibron (see page 315) — a highly adversarial one, to be sure, but a relationship nonetheless. She’s been trying to capture him for nearly two decades at this point and will eagerly follow up on any clue she gets as to his whereabouts or plans.
Other than that, Nebula counts virtually everyone as an enemy, or at least a threat. Heroes want to capture her and stop her from exiling people to Duress; villains hate her and want to kill her before she can “sentence” them. Only other vigilantes, such as Thunderbird, are in any way sympathetic to her.

NEBULA FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Nebula if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: Nebula is a sort of vigilante who pursues supercriminals and transports them against their will to an alternate dimension called Duress. Their “sentences” vary depending on their crimes, but are always quite long... often for life.
K/R: Her real name is u-Vareeta Hoki; she’s an alien from the Andromeda Galaxy. Her species calls itself the Yuun’ta. She’s a member of the Tel’narian Guard, a force of superpowered policemen.
-1: Nebula transports victims to Duress by using a weapon (her Duress Gauntlets), but she also has some innate energy powers of her own.
-2: Nebula’s costume is interwoven with tech- nology that generates a force-field and allows her to fly.
-6: Nebula’s body is unusually susceptible to chemicals, gases, and poisons from the Milky Way Galaxy.
-8: Nebula’s desire to enforce the “Supreme Code of Justice” of her people has been bioneurally “implanted” in her; it’s extraordinarily difficult to get her to go against the Code’s dictates.

