OGRE
Background/History: In need of a random group of test subjects for its latest invention, a Devolu- tionizer Ray designed to turn ordinary people into super-strong quasi-australopithecines, ARGENT kidnapped a couple dozen fans from a sporting event in Denver. One of the people it grabbed was Jack Stevens, a computer programmer.
One by one, Jack saw his fellow prisoners led out of the room, and soon heard the agonizing screams as their captors did... something to them. Then the guards came in and motioned to him. They took him into a laboratory and strapped him down, smashing him in the side with a rifle butt when he tried to break free. Then Jack heard an odd-pitched whine and saw bizarre lights inside his brain. Pain ripped through his body. He screamed and screamed, it seemed like forever, but then the pain slowly faded away and he passed out.
And that’s the last time Jack Stevens remem- bered anything. The Devolutionizer Ray worked on him, at least partially. It transformed him into a brutish proto-humanoid, strong enough to rip cars in two or punch through armor plating, but dumb as a bag of hammers. It wiped out most of his memories of his old life, leaving only the recol- lection of being captured, forced into a lab, and tortured. The thought of the torture enraged him. He snapped the restraints the ARGENT scientists had put him in, smashed through one of the lab’s walls, and proceeded to destroy the entire facility as a way of punishing the “bullies.” Slightly calmer after so much “exercise,” he wandered off into the night before the cops arrived. Soon “the Ogre”
(as one of his early employers dubbed him) was a well-known, and easily-manipulated, figure on the supervillain scene.
Personality/Motivation: The Devolutionizer Ray affected Ogre’s mind as well as his body, making him intensely stupid. He has difficulty remem- bering things (particularly complicated subjects, like detailed attack plans). When he’s involved in a scenario, at some point the GM should make an EGO Roll for him. If Ogre fails the roll, he’s forgotten an important fact; if he realizes this, his frustration may make him do something destructive.
In one respect, Ogre’s memory is quite good. He vividly recalls being captured and tortured (though he doesn’t know by who, exactly). This has left him with a strong dislike of “bullies,” his term for anyone who tries to hurt other people, forces other people to do things they don’t want to, makes fun of other people, or the like. “Bullies” also include just about anyone who tries to stop Ogre from doing something Ogre wants to do (unless they use very gentle persuasion and somehow appeal to his “good side”). Many super- villains have exploited Ogre by tricking him into thinking a particular hero is a “bully.”

Quote: “You not stop Ogre! Ogre smash all bullies!”
Powers/Tactics: Ogre lacks the intelligence to formulate any sort of sophisticated tactics. Typi- cally he picks an opponent — the most “bully”- like one, or the one who’s hurt him the most in the current or past combats — and smashes them with all his strength. He particularly enjoys Haymak- ering his Punch, and will do so whenever there’s a reasonable chance he’ll succeed (for example, if his opponent is Stunned).
Campaign Use: Ogre is a straightforward brick, useful as a hireling or patsy for a more intelligent or sophisticated villain. However, Jack Stevens was an ordinary, even upstanding, citizen; if a way could be found to reverse the Devolutionizer Ray’s affects on Ogre’s intelligence, he’d probably switch gears and become a superhero — or a super- strong volunteer worker.
To make Ogre more powerful, increase his STR or SPD, or give him some Damage Reduction. You could also add a few more “brick tricks” like his Super-Strength Smash-Through. To weaken him, reduce his STR and defenses.
Ogre really isn’t smart enough to Hunt heroes; he doesn’t have the intelligence or memory needed to formulate a Hunting plan and carry through on it. He’s good at holding grudges, though; if a hero (particularly another super-strong character) has defeated him repeatedly, he’ll always go after that “bully” first.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: The list of villains Ogre’s worked for is almost endless. His stupidity and hatred of “bullies” makes it easy
for even low-powered villains to manipulate him into helping them. However, he doesn’t always
get along so well with gadgeteers and rifle-toting weaponmasters (who vaguely remind him of being captured and devolutionized), and some- times regards other bricks as potential “bullies” or rivals. Villains who definitely fall into the “bully” category based on Ogre’s experiences with them include Blackstar and Frost (and by extension, Frost’s brother Requiem, and possibly all members of the Ultimates... assuming Ogre grasps the fact that Blackstar is a member of a team). Bulldozer would also be considered a “bully,” except that even Ogre has concluded that he’s just a jackass.
ARGENT would love to get Ogre back so it can study him in the hope of finding out how to make the Devolutionizer Ray work the way it wants
the device to. So far he’s escaped its snares, but ARGENT can be mighty persistent when it wants to be....
Foxbat once rescued Ogre from some cops. As a result Ogre now thinks of Foxbat as his “little buddy” and goes out of his way to protect him if necessary.
Appearance: Ogre is a huge, thick-limbed man with reddish-purple skin. His prominent brow- ridges, skull-ridge with thatch of black hair, and pointed ears betray his proto-human nature. He usually wears a black tank top, red pants, grey boots, and heavy steel bracers and belt.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
65 STR 55 22- 20 DEX 20 13- 33 CON 23 16- 5 INT -5 10- 10 EGO 0 11- 25 PRE 15 14-
6 OCV 15 6 DCV 15 3 OMCV 0
3 DMCV 0
4 SPD 20
30 PD 28 24 ED 22 20 REC 16 65END 9 20 BODY 10 74 STUN 27
Movement: Running: Leaping:
Cost Powers
Lift 200 tons; 13d6 HTH damage [6]
PER Roll 10- PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 3, 6, 9, 12 Total: 30 PD (30 rPD)
Total: 24 ED (24 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 270
OGRE FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Ogre if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Ogre is a super-strong villain... but unfortunately he’s as stupid and destructive as he is strong.
K/R: Ogre’s worked for dozens of villains over the years; he’s even easier to manipulate than Grond.
-2: Ogre has a particular hatred of “bullies,” meaning anyone who tries
to hurt him or make him do things he doesn’t want to do — or even who acts that way toward other people.
-8: Ogre’s mind is so simple that it’s very easy to affect him with most psionic powers.
-10: Ogre was once a normal man named Jack Stevens; he got his powers when ARGENT kidnapped for use as
a test subject for an experimental “Devolutionizer Ray.”
13 Roomsweeper: Area Of Effect (1m Radius around character; +1⁄4) for 65 STR
END
2
Personal Immunity (+1⁄4); Extra Time (Full Phase; -1⁄2)
13 Devolutionized Body: Hardened (+1⁄4) for 30 PD/24 ED 0 34 Devolutionized Body: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 30 PD/24 ED 0
Hardened (+1⁄4)
21 Super-Strong Legs: Leaping +42m (46m forward,
23m upward) 3 18 Super-Strength Smash-Through: Tunneling
1m through 15 PD material 3
Requires A STR Roll (-1⁄2),
No Noncombat Movement (-1⁄4)
6 Animalistic Senses: +2 PER with all Sense Groups 0 Skills
24 +3 HTH
1 KS: The Superhuman World 8-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 130 Total Cost: 400
400 Matching Complications (75)
30 Enraged: Berserk in combat (Very Common), go 11-, recover 14-
20 Hunted: ARGENT (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Psychological Complication: Devolutionized Memory
(Common, Strong)
30 Vulnerability: 2 x Effect from Mental Powers (Very
Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0

