Background/History: Colleen Dewey was a grad- uate student pursuing a Ph.D. in astronomy. To improve her ability to study the stars, she learned how to design new, improved lenses for her tele- scopes. Her peers scoffed at her, but she claimed her lenses made the heavens come through much more clearly.
Late one evening, Dewey was scanning the heavens on her normal schedule, using an all-new lens she’d just created that day with some new procedures and supplies she’d never tried before. Suddenly, she chanced across something... odd. Smack in the middle of Orion, where it had no right to be, there was an unusual patch of bright light. It didn’t look quite like a star, or anything else she’d ever seen. She focused in on it, watching intently, wondering if she’d just discovered some- thing that would get her name in the journals.
Then the light flared, and there was a white flash inside Dewey’s mind, and she passed out.
She awakened several hours later. At first she thought dawn was breaking, but then she realized she was the one glowing, not the eastern horizon. Her whole body was emitting a field of soft, yellow light. Panic started to rise within her mind — what had happened to her? — and it only increased as the field began to get brighter. Soon she was curled into a ball, her hands pressed over her eyes, trying to shut out the light, but it was too bright.
Something snapped in Dewey’s mind that night. Maybe whatever changed her physically affected her psychologically as well, or maybe
her conscious and subconscious terror over what had happened to her did the trick, but the result was the same. She went from being an ordinary, law-abiding graduate student to a callous criminal. With her incredible light-based powers to help her, she’s committed numerous robberies and various other forms of mayhem, not hesitating to blast the police or any superheroes who got in her way. Though she doesn’t pose as much of a threat as the likes of Gravitar or Firewing, she’s still a force to be reckoned with, and every year she seems to get more powerful.
Personality/Motivation: Photon is callous, amoral, arrogant, and greedy. Where once she only cared about her studies, friends, and family, these
days she ignores all those things (except for her boyfriend Greg) in favor of stealing and being a part of the Superhuman World. She doesn’t want to kill or seriously harm anyone, but otherwise she’s only concerned with herself and what she can take. She figures she deserves anything she can get; after all, the light in the sky made her a “freak” who can’t ever really be a part of anyone’s life anyway.
Quote: “Time to light this place up!”

Powers/Tactics: Photon’s body was infused by
a strange light from the sky, whose origin and nature she remains utterly ignorant of. As a result, she gained powers relating to light and bright- ness. She can project blasts of light in various forms (from deadly lasers, to concussive blasts, to blinding flashes), protect herself with a force-field of shifting prisms and planes of light, and even transform her body into a mostly-light form. When she first became a supervillain, she only had some of these powers, and she could easily develop more (see below) over time.
In combat, Photon has to watch her END usage carefully; she doesn’t have enough END to go full- tilt every Phase, Turn after Turn. With her high SPD, she can often afford to spend a Phase or two each Turn taking Recoveries to make up for the lack. For some reason, despite her experience she’s never undergone any increase in stamina.
With her Lightspeed I power, Photon can go pretty much anywhere on Earth in the blink of an eye (though of course, if she hasn’t been there before, she’s going to have to slow down and search for her precise destination; she doesn’t have any heightened senses that function with her MegaScaled Teleportation). It’s a great power for escaping from the scene of a crime. With her Lightspeed II power, she could journey around the near regions of Earth’s solar system easily — but she hasn’t yet developed a way to so wholly transform her body into light that she can survive in outer space (i.e., have Life Support). No doubt she’ll learn to do so in time (i.e., after earning some more Experience Points).
Photon still does not entirely have control over her powers; if she’s in her normal human form and gets frustrated or upset, she may spontaneously transform into her superhuman persona. She’s also vulnerable to darkness-based attacks, or fields of darkness which cut off her access to outside light.
Campaign Use: Photon makes a good mercenary villain whom master villains can employ, or she can team up with similar super-criminals to form impromptu teams. Additionally, you can explore the question of her origin — what was that myste- rious light from space? Why did it affect her and not someone else?
To make Photon more powerful, give her some additional abilities, either as part of one of her Power Frameworks, or bought separately. Exam- ples include: the ability to bend light (allowing her to become invisible, or to see around walls); the ability to transform herself so fully into light that she gains Life Support; the ability to control machines with fiber-optic technology (Mind Control versus the Machine class of minds); the power to shape light into solid forms (Barrier, Entangle, and various other powers). To make her less powerful, decrease her SPD to 6 or 7, and her Multipower’s reserve to 60 Active Points.

Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Photon might make a good potential member of GRAB. Like that group’s members, she’s not a killer and is mostly interested in money. But she’s a bit harder- edged than most of the GRABbers, more prone to frustration and angry outbursts, and that might cause friction within the team. Another possibility is that she could join the Futurists; they might be a better fit for her in the long run.
Photon’s origin and background could link her with other villains. For example, Stareye
(see Merc-Force 1 in CV2) might have gotten his powers from the same (or a similar) source; so could Sunspot (see page 276). Or perhaps she and Tachyon might start a partnership (or even romantic relationship); their mutual interest in astronomy would draw them together as much as their common career as supervillains.
As a mercenary villain Photon’s worked for or with quite a few other members of the supervillain community. These include the Ultimates (though she loathes Slick), Esper, Zephyr, and VIPER.
Appearance: Photon’s costume is a bodysuit with sunset-pink torso, thighs, and arms, and sunset- gold legs, boots, and gloves. She doesn’t wear a mask, but conceals her identity through minor light-manipulations that subtly alter her features and make her eyes look pupilless. Her hair is long and dark.


PHOTON FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Photon if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Photon is a supervillainess with light projection and manipulation powers; she can even transform her body into pure light to travel around the world in the blink of an eye or avoid the effect of attacks.
-2: Although she’s
a hardened, greedy criminal, Photon has on several occasions gone out of her way to avoid seriously harming superhe- roes or innocent bystanders.
-4: Being in a Dark- ness field causes Photon great pain; she’s also particu- larly easy to hurt with Darkness attacks.
-10: Her Secret Identity is Colleen Dewey; she’s an astronomy graduate student.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
10 STR 0
30 DEX 25 CON 10 INT 18 EGO 15 PRE
11-
40
15 13-
5
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1] OCV: 10/DCV: 10
PER Roll 11- PRE Attack: 3d6
Phases:2,3,5,6,8,9,11,12 Total: 27 PD (20 rPD)
Total: 38 ED (20 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 242
12m 60m
10 OCV 35 10 DCV 35 3 OMCV 0 6 DMCV 9
60
8 SPD 7 PD
5 16 7 REC 3 50END 6 10 BODY 0 30 STUN 5
18 ED
Movement: Running: Flight:
Cost Powers
END
Skills
10 +2 with Lightfire Multipower
0
8 13-
15-
11- 12-
75 Lightfire: Multipower, 75-point reserve 7f 1) Lightblast: Blast 12d6
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
7f 2) Brightblast: Sight Group Flash 12d6
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
7f 3) Brightfield: Sight Group Flash 10d6
Area Of Effect (8m Radius; +1⁄2)
5f 4) Brightcone: Sight Group Flash 7d6
Area Of Effect (64m Cone; +1); No Range (-1⁄2) 7f 5) Maxbright: Sight Group Flash 12d6
Armor Piercing (+1⁄4) 7f 6) Laser-Eyes: RKA 3d6
Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
48 Prism-Field: Resistant Protection (20 PD/20 ED) Nonpersistent (-1⁄4)
25 Brighteyes: Sight Group Flash Defense (25 points) 0 90 Lightflight: Flight 60m 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
70 Lightform: Multipower, 70-point reserve
7f 1) Lightspeed I: Teleportation 20m 0
MegaScale (1m = 10,000 km; +2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
1f 2) Lightspeed II: FTL Travel (1 LY/year) 0 5f 3) Lightform: Desolidification (affected by light and
darkness attacks) 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Cannot Pass Through Opaque Objects (-1⁄4)
3 1
2 KS: The Superhuman World 11-
7 3
Systems Operation 11-
Computer Programming 8-
3 2
2 SS: Astronomy 11-
PS: Graduate Student 11-
7 2
3 Streetwise 12-
SS: Optics 11-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 386 7 Total Cost: 628
400 Matching Complications (75)
15 Accidental Change: when she experiences significant stress, frustration, or aggravation 11- (Common)
DNPC: Greg Betts (boyfriend; Unaware of Photon’s Social Complication: Secret Identity) (Frequent, Normal)
15 Hunted: California Patrol (Infrequently, Mo Pow, Capture) 20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Code Versus Killing
(Common, Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Amoral (Common, Strong) 15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Colleen Dewey)
(Frequently, Major)
20 Susceptible: to Darkness to Sight Group, takes 1d6 per
Phase (Common)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Darkness attacks
(Uncommon)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x BODY from Darkness attacks
(Uncommon)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 228

