Background/History: Vince Conti was the ulti- mate stoner. He had a trust fund instead of a job, so he spent all his time getting high. Usually he stuck to relatively mild drugs like pot and coke, but when the mood took him he’d go for heroin, meth, LSD, or whatever the designer drug of the week was. You name it, Vince had tried it — and probably introduced a dozen other people to it.
One day one of Vince’s stoner pals dared him to take a whole bunch of different pills at once. Vince was always up to try a new drug experience, so he said, “Sure, what the hell,” and tossed them back with shots of tequila. He reclined back on the couch and waited to see what it was going to feel like. He began to feel a little weird... then a lot weird....
The next thing he knew it was late morning. He still felt weird... then he felt sick. He made it to the bathroom just before he threw up. He was there a long time, but when he was done he felt a lot better.
He went back into the living room; there were still a couple people there. One of them was a
cute blonde he remembered having fun with the night before, so he touched her shoulder and tried to gently shake her awake. She didn’t wake up at first... and then he recoiled in horror as disgusting sores appeared on her shoulder where he had touched her. They started to spread over her body. She woke up then, screaming in pain, and ran
for the bathroom herself — but she fell over dead before she ever reached it, her body looking like

she was the victim of the worst plague mankind had ever encountered.
Completely confused, and still loopy from
the drugs, Vince grabbed some clothes and some cash and got the hell out of there. He drove to
his mountain cabin. A little bit of experimenta- tion with the dogs and horses... and then with the servants... confirmed his worst fears: he’d become some sort of disease carrier. Whatever it was, he could unleash it on people with just a touch, and he could control how sick they got from it.
That was the beginning of the downward spiral that eventually led to the supervillain Plague. At first Vince was slightly repulsed by his powers and tried not to use them, but in time they became more and more intriguing and he became less and less concerned with the value of human life. Today he works as a henchman and assassin for any supervillain brave enough to hire a man who liter- ally carries the death of millions in his hands.
Personality/Motivation: Plague is practically inhuman. In his more grandiose moments he views himself almost as some sort of living embodiment of Plague, one of the horsemen of the apocalypse, sent to Earth to wreak terror among its inhabitants. (Though he’s not above taking money for doing the work.) When he’s feeling more depressed and bitter about things, he realizes he’ll never be able to have normal relationships with other people ever again, and he just wishes that everyone would get sick and die. It’s hard to say which mood makes him the more dangerous; it’s a miracle he hasn’t caused a devastating epidemic yet.
Quote: “The fires of fever, the chills of flu, the shivers of palsy, the agonies of arthritis — all of these I have for you, and more, many more....”
Powers/Tactics: Plague is a mutant whose latent powers were activated when he took what would otherwise have been a lethal stew of illegal drugs. His powers allow him to infect other people with diseases — any disease he can think of (and he’s studied the subject a great deal since developing his powers). Depending on how intense he makes the disease, the victim might keel over and die
in just a few seconds, or the illness can linger for weeks. (For special effects and dramatic purposes, the GM can allow him to specify a time frame
for his Chronic Disease power of any timeframe up to six weeks, thus allowing him to inflict a disease that runs its course in, say, one or two weeks instead of six.) Just touching him, or being touched by him, is enough infect the subject with a mild, very short-term disease.
In combat, Plague usually relies on the fear his diseases cause as much as the diseases themselves; he makes a lot of threatening gestures and Pres- ence Attacks. He has no qualms about threatening to make innocent bystanders sick, or to try to unleash entire epidemics, if he has to. Unless he’s specifically been hired to kill someone, he usually — usually — inflicts diseases that Drain CON and STUN, or DEX and CON, so that his victims are too weak to resist being captured.

Val Char Cost
10 STR 18 DEX 28 CON 13 INT 10 EGO 20 PRE
Roll
0
16 13- 18 15-
Notes
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 3d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 18 PD (8 rPD)
Total: 16 ED (8 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 162
12m
6 OCV 15
6 DCV
3 OMCV
3 DMCV 0
5 SPD 10 PD
30
8
8 ED 12REC 8 95 END 15 18 BODY 8 40 STUN 10
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
END
400
10
30 20 20
10
15
Matching Complications (75)
Distinctive Features: Mutant (Not Concealable; Always Noticed; Detectable Only By Unusual Senses)
Hunted: CDC (Very Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) Hunted: Sentinels (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) Psychological Complication: Casual Killer (Very
Common, Strong)
Psychological Complication: If I’m Sick, Then Everybody
Gotta Be Sick (Common, Moderate)
Social Complication: Secret Identity (Vincent Conti)
(Frequently, Major)
PLAGUE
Skills
15 +5 with Incredibly Acute Disease, Acute Disease, and Chronic Disease
3
0 10
12- 11- 13-
2 KS:
2 SS:
1 SS:
1 SS:
2 SS:
1 SS:
2 SS:
3 Stealth 13-
3 Streetwise 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 248 Total Cost: 410
15 0
6
11-
65 Incredibly Acute Disease: RKA 4d6
NND (defense is Life Support [appropriate Immunity];
+1), Does BODY (+1); Limited Range (6m; -1⁄4), No Knockback (-1⁄4), Only Affects Living Beings (-1), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
46 Acute Disease: Drain Characteristics 1d6
Expanded Effect + Variable Effect (any two Charac- teristics at once; +1), Damage Over Time (6 incre- ments, one per 2 Segments for 1 Turn, defenses only apply once, cannot affect victim a second time until all increments accrue; +6); Limited Range (6m; -1⁄4), Only Affects Living Beings (-1⁄4), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
3 Chronic Disease: Drain Characteristics 1d6
Expanded Effect + Variable Effect (any two Charac- teristics at once; +1); Damage Over Time (6 incre- ments, one per Week for 6 Weeks, defenses only apply once, cannot affect victim a second time until all increments accrue; -4), Limited Range (6m; -1⁄4), Only Affects Living Beings (-1⁄4), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
65 Contagiousness: Drain Characteristics 2d6
Expanded Effect + Variable Effect (any two Char- acteristics at once; +1), Area Of Effect (personal Surface — Damage Shield; +1⁄4), Constant (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
16 Armored Costume: Resistant Protection (8 PD/8 ED) OIF (-1⁄2)
3 Smoked Goggles: Sight Group Flash Defense (5 points) OIF (-1⁄2)
10 Carrier: Life Support: Immunity (all terrestrial diseases, biowarfare agents, poisons, and chemical warfare agents)
Perks
8 Positive Reputation: supervillain who’s swimming with disease and whose very touch brings death (in the United States) 11-, +4/+4d6 ### This is “positive”?
18
8
2
0
0 0
0
Total Complications Points: 75
Experience Points: 10

Campaign Use: Since Plague’s powers are constructed as Drains, technically they should have the Sticky Advantage if you want to start a true epidemic. However, for dramatic purposes you can let them function that way anyway if you want to. Short of a nuclear bomb nothing’s likely to terrify your heroes as much as the prospect of the Ebola virus sweeping through the American population....
To make Plague tougher, increase his defenses so he can stand up to attacks better, and/or extend the Range of his powers. To weaken him, reduce the dice in his Drains so he has a much harder time inflicting serious/fatal illnesses.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Plague is willing to work as a villain for hire, but only the most disturbed and/or desperate villains are going to hire him. Not only can just being around him make his employer sick, but it takes a special kind of disregard for the sanctity of human life to put
a guy like Plague on the payroll. A VIPER Nest Leader or two has done it, but the organization as a whole discourages working with Plague; the Council of Thirty has no more desire to die in an epidemic than anyone else.
King Cobra — who has no qualms about unleashing diseases on humanity — and Teleios are both interested in in Plague’s powers and would like to study him further. So far they’ve tried to do this covertly, since they rightly suspect that Plague wouldn’t trust them, but they (particu- larly King Cobra) might eventually hire him through intermediaries and then try to lure him into a hermetically-sealed prison cell for detailed examination.
Appearance: Plague is a 5’9” tall white male, though the lesions and sores all over his body make it difficult to determine his skin color sometimes. He wears a high-tech containment suit designed to look like it’s made of distressed, burned leather and metal.

PLAGUE FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Plague if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: Plague is a supervillain with disease infliction powers. His very touch can afflict someone with a fatal disease. His ability to cause epidemics makes him one of the most dangerous supervillains on the planet.
-4: Based on some comments he’s made, Plague may have a background in pharmacology... or at least he’s taken a lot of drugs.
-6: Plague is a mutant.
-10: His Secret Identity is Vincent Conti.

