Background/History: It didn’t take Frank Costen long to discover there aren’t too many things you can do when you’re a high school dropout who’s been dishonorably discharged from the Army. Sure, you can get drunk and start barfights, but only if you’ve got money to buy liquor. It wasn’t long before Frank didn’t even have that.
When Frank got a tip about a VIPER recruiting drive he jumped at the chance. He figured he’d be perfect for it — with his military experience, he was a shoe-in! Soon he’d be on his way to the big time.
The tip turned out to be good, and Frank
was soon being given a physical by some VIPER scientists. After taking a look at his test results, the scientists made him an offer. They were looking for some “special recruits” to become part of an elite VIPER fighting force. Was he interested?
This time, Frank was certain, his luck was changing. He was right — but not the way he thought. The “evaluation test” for the “elite fighting force” turned out to be experiments in human mutation. As the electronic hum of the machinery he was strapped to rose in pitch, Frank felt intense pain sear through every cell of his body. And then it got worse. And worse.
Frank was in so much agony he barely noticed when the machinery exploded around him. It was a couple of minutes before he realized he was lying on the floor in a heap of rubble — and the pain was gone! In fact, he felt... better. More alive, more vital, more — energetic. His body was bursting with energy!
Almost without thinking, Frank blasted the rubble off his body and stood up. He was glowing green, but he didn’t care. All he cared about was getting back at those scientists. A few minutes and three dead scientists later, Frank was finally knocked out and restrained by VIPER soldiers. When he came to, the Nest Leader made him an offer: come to work for VIPER, or be killed. Frank knew a losing hand when he saw it, so he signed up.
He didn’t like it, though. Not wanting to be bossed around was what led to his dishonorable discharge, after all. At the first opportunity, he blasted his way out and never looked back. Since then, Frank — using the name Pulsar — has been a common sight on the supervillain scene. Some- times involved with a scheme of his own, some- times working for other criminals, he’s fought most of the major superheroes in America, and
a lot of the minor ones. He’s done precious little winning, though. Somehow things just don’t seem to go his way. But this next job, see, it’s perfect; nothing can possibly go wrong....

Personality/Motivation: Pulsar is, at heart, a lazy underachiever. He thinks of himself as the stuff master villains are made of and one of the most powerful men in the world. He explains all his fail- ures away as “bad luck.” But the truth is he doesn’t work hard at anything; he expects to be given fame, fortune, and women on a silver platter, and he has an excuse for everything that goes wrong.
Despite his numerous failures, losses, and periods of imprisonment, Pulsar has an over- weening sense of self-confidence. He’s convinced he has the power to defeat anyone, and he’s quite susceptible to flattering comments and extrava- gent praise (especially from women). Despite his well-known dislike for taking orders, it’s not diffi- cult for a charismatic person to manipulate Pulsar into doing his bidding.
Quote: “Now you’ll see what true power is!”
Powers/Tactics: VIPER’s experiments in mutating humans granted Pulsar energy powers. He can fire power-blasts, fly, and protect himself with a force- field. He can even use his power to “juice up” an otherwise ordinary punch — a tactic he loves to use to show how macho and tough he is.
Even though he’s had military training, Pulsar has little grasp of tactics. Mainly he shows off, blasting the biggest, most obvious, or most important target to show his power. He likes to Haymaker his power blasts when he can, more for the impressiveness than the extra damage. (He always follows them up with a Presence Attack.)
The only downside to Pulsar’s powers is the way they altered his molecular structure, making him vulnerable to physical objects that pierce his skin — bullets, knives, claws, and so on. Energy seeps out of cuts and punctures like blood gushing from a wound, causing him intense pain. For this reason, he avoids opponents with such attacks whenever he can.
Campaign Use: Pulsar is a good “throwaway” villain you can use in just about any scenario. He can work with just about anyone, be manipulated into doing just about anything, and always seems to find a way to escape from prison.
If Pulsar’s too weak for your campaign, scale him up by giving him a few more energy powers (maybe a Barrier, Telekinesis, or the like) and
by increasing the DCs in his attacks and/or the number of CSLs he can apply to them. If he’s too strong, just decrease his DCs, and perhaps a few of his Characteristics.
As a Hunter, Pulsar is dangerous mainly because he loves to plan ambushes and often seems to attack at the worst possible time. If he can, he’ll use his Shadowing to follow his target around until he senses “just the right moment to strike!”


Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Pulsar’s
had one of the longest criminal careers of
any currently-active villain in the Champions Universe, and during that time he’s worked with or for a wide variety of villains. The Ultimates have brought him in to augment their firepower on several occasions, as has Merc-Force 1, and the list of villains he’s partnered with is too long to include here. Most of them he still gets along with, though there are exceptions — Ankylosaur doesn’t like him at all, and Zorran the Artificer thinks he’s an idiot.
VIPER is still after Pulsar — it created him and still regards him as its “property.” When it finally catches up to him, either he joins Dragon Branch or dies.
Appearance: Pulsar wears a bodystocking that’s colored a green-tinted chrome. On his chest there’s a white starburst symbol with a silvery green center. His half-face mask, the same color as his bodystocking, includes a set of darker green eye-protecting goggles. His boots and short gloves are a metallic green.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
PULSAR FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Pulsar if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: Pulsar is a supervillain with energy projection powers. He can fire energy blasts, protect himself with a force-field, and fly. His energy emissions typically have a yellow-orange color.
K/R: His real name is Frank Costen.
-1: Pulsar got his powers as the result of a VIPER experiment gone wrong, and the snakes still “want him back.”
-2: Despite have suffered many setbacks and defeats during his career, Pulsar remains extremely confident in his powers and general competence.
-6: Pulsar used to have a real thing for Morgan Fairchild, but seems to’ve gotten over it.
15 STR 5 12- 23 DEX 26 14- 23 CON 13 14-
10 INT 0 11-
11 EGO 1 11-
15 PRE 5 12-
7 OCV 20 7 DCV 20
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
Lift 200 kg; 3d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 11- PRE Attack: 3d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 Total: 23 (10 rPD)
Total: 27 (10 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 189
12m 20m
6 SPD 13 PD
40
11
17 ED 10REC 6 45END 5 14 BODY 4
50 STUN 15
Movement: Running: Flight:
Cost Powers
15
60 Energy Powers: Multipower, 60-point powers 6f 1) Power Blast I: Blast 12d6
6f 2) Power Blast II: Blast 8d6
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2) 6f 3) Stun-Blast: Blast 6d6
NND (defense is ED Resistant Protection defined as a “force-field” or the like; +1)
2f 4) Powered Punch: HA +5d6 Hand-To-Hand Attack (-1⁄4)
30 Force-Field: Resistant Protection (10 PD/10 ED) 30 Power-Flight: Flight 20m
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2) Martial Arts: Commando Training
6 0
6
2
0 0
Maneuver OCV DCV
Notes
3d6 + v/10, Target Falls 5d6
Grab One Limb, 2d6 NND (2) 1⁄2d6 HKA (1d6+1 with STR)
3 Aikido Throw
4 Boxing Cross
4 Choke
4 Karate“Chop” -2
+0 +1 +0 +2 -2 +0 +0
END
Skills
15 +3 with Energy Powers Multipower 4 +2 with Flight
3 Combat Driving 14-
3 Concealment 11-
3 Demolitions 11-
2 Gambling (Card Games) 11-
2 KS: The Superhuman World 11- 1 KS: VIPER 8-
1 KS: U.S. Army 8-
3 Power: Energy Powers 14- 2 PS: Soldier 11-
5 Security Systems 12-
3 Shadowing 11-
3 Stealth 14-
3 Streetwise 12-
1 Systems Operation 8-
2 TF: SCUBA, Snow Skiing
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 211 Total Cost: 400
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: VIPER (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Psychological Complication: Overconfidence (Very
Common, Moderate)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Frank Costen)
(Frequently, Major) 10 Unluck 2d6
15 Vulnerability: 11⁄2 x STUN from Physical HKAs (Very Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0

