Background/History: Peter Nathan was a junior- grade scientist working at a biomedical think tank. His superiors assigned him to a project that was researching serpent DNA for use in medi- cines. The work was going well, and in fact the group was about to present the company with an experimental drug for second-stage testing, when VIPER got wind of the situation and decided that a serpent-based drug should belong to it, and it alone.
A team of green-clad agents burst into the lab and began roughing up the scientists, stealing notes and supplies, and destroying equipment.
In the confusion Nathan was shoved into a
device that was preparing the final samples of the experimental drug. He smashed into it, he and it fell over, and there was an electrical explosion that showered him with bits of glass and the drug itself. The force of the blast knocked him unconscious.
He woke up to discover that the VIPER agents had fled and the police were there. His injuries seemed superficial, so he accepted treatment from a paramedic but refused to go to the hospital. But the next morning he discovered that something had gone horribly wrong — the drug had mutated him! He had half-human, half-reptilian features and could even stretch his body like a serpent! Somehow he had the proportionate strength of a serpent as well; he could lift almost anything and squeeze even harder.
At first Nathan thought it might not be so
bad — maybe he could even become a superhero. But as time went by and he studied his condi- tion, his thoughts began to change. He realized he was changing mentally as well as physically, and while he was still as smart as an average human he wasn’t nearly as smart as he used to be. He become more and more upset and angry.
Eventually the day came when his savings ran out and the bills were piling up. He just couldn’t take it anymore. Covering himself up with a large overcoat, he went downtown, smashed into a bank, and took the money he needed. From there it was just a few short, angry steps to becoming the supervillain Python.
Personality/Motivation: Python is a very different person from the calm, rational thinker that the old Peter Nathan used to be. He’s aggressive, belligerent, temperamental, easily frustrated, and violent. When something gets in his way, his first response is usually to smash it; when he loses his temper, he’s liable to smash anything nearby.
Python’s intelligence has deteriorated, which only makes him angrier. He’s aware that he used to know more about things like biology and poli- tics, and that frustrates him. If someone nearby shows off how smart he is, or makes a big deal out of a blunder that Python commits, the odds are Python will beat him to a pulp.
Quote: “Get out of my way you little pest, or I’ll squeeze you so hard your head’ll pop off.”
Powers/Tactics: Python has superhuman strength and resilience as a result of being mutated into
a half-man, half-reptile form by exposure to
the experimental serum. His body is slightly malleable, able to stretch about six feet (and his limbs can stretch six feet further). This makes it particularly easy for him to squeeze with devas- tating power; that’s his favorite maneuver in combat.
Campaign Use: Python is a “cannon fodder” villain who could serve as a henchman for nearly any master villain or a member of most villain teams. With surgery and the proper chemical treatments it might be possible to restore his
full intelligence, which would make it likely he’d reform and perhaps even become a superhero.
To make Python tougher, increase his STR to 70-80 and his defenses proportionately. To weaken him, reduce his raw STR to 40, making him much more dependent on his Grab bonuses.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Despite some media and Internet speculation, Python has no connection to the New Paladins superhero of the same name and similar powers (see CU 71). Nor does he particularly care that there’s a hero out there who’s so much like him — though if the two met he’d fight hard to prove who the better Python is.
Python bitterly hates VIPER for causing the accident that mutated him. Any chance he gets to interfere with VIPER or expose its activities, he’ll take. For its part, VIPER thinks he needs to be brainwashed and made a member of Dragon Branch.
Appearance: Python is six feet tall. He’s got half- human, half-reptilian features including scaly
skin with a pale greenish tinge, eyes and nose like those of a serpent, no external ears, and almost no body hair. His tunic (with shoulders that flare out slighly over his upper arms), trunks, boots, and gloves are green; his arms and legs grey. He doesn’t wear a mask.
PYTHON FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Python if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: Python is a super-strong villain with the ability to stretch his body.
K/R: When he grabs someone, Python’s strength for holding, squeezing, and crushing them is the equal of Grond’s.
-2: One member of the New Paladins superhero team of Boston has the same name as, and similar powers to, Python; some in the media have specu- lated that there’s a connection between them.
-10: His Secret Identity is Peter Nathan; he’s a scientist who got his powers when VIPER inter- fered with one of his experiments.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
Cost Powers
3 Python Power: Stretching 2m Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
3 Python Limbs: Stretching +2m
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Limbs Only (-0)
60 Python’s Strength: Multipower, 60-point reserve 3f 1) Bearhug: Blast 6d6
NND (defense is Life Support [Self-Contained Breathing]; +1); Must Follow Grab (-1⁄2), No Range (-1⁄2)
2f 2) Crushing Grip: +30 STR
Only To Grab (including Squeeze but not Throw; -1⁄2)
END
0 0
6
3
0
60 STR 50
20 DEX 20
30 CON 20 15-
8 INT -2
10 EGO 0 11-
20 PRE 10
7 OCV 20 6 DCV 15 3 OMCV 0 3 DMCV 0
Lift 100 tons; 12d6 HTH damage [6]
PER Roll 11- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 30 PD (24 rPD)
Total: 30 ED (24 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 276
12m 12m
5 SPD 30 PD
30
28
30 ED
20 REC 16 60END 8 20 BODY 10 66 STUN 23
Movement: Running: Leaping:
28
24 Tough Body: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 24 PD/24 ED
30 Tough Body: Physical and Energy Damage Reduction,
21- 13-
11- 13-
Resistant, 25% 0 4 Strong Legs: Leaping +8m (12m forward, 6m upward) 1 5 Serpentine Eyes: Infrared Perception (Sight Group) 0 9 Serpentine Senses: +3 to PER Rolls with all Sense
Groups 0
Skills
24 +3 HTH
6 +3 OCV with Grab
1 SS: Biology 8-
1 SS: Herpetology 8-
3 Stealth 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 178 Total Cost: 454
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Enraged: in combat (Common), go 11-, recover 11- 20 Enraged: if he even thinks he’s being insulted or disre-
spected (Common), go 11-, recover 11-
20 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: VIPER (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
15 Psychological Complication: Solves His Problems And
Frustrations With His Fists (Common, Strong) 15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Peter Nathan)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 54