Background/History: One of the newest super- villainous threats to Humanity has quickly become one of the deadliest. In September 2009 a mysterious being calling himself the Reaper first appeared in San Francisco. Garbed in a costume that resembled the traditional picture of the Grim Reaper itself, he wielded a scythe-like weapon to lethal effect, killing several dozen people before being driven away by several superheroes.
Since then he’s struck again and again around the world in attacks that basically follow the same pattern, racking up a body count that’s now in
the thousands. Despite extensive investigation no one has yet to learn anything about him — not his name, his lair, or his motivation. Many theories have been proposed, but the truth is far stranger than any of them.
In August 2009 a building collapsed in San Francisco. Over a hundred people died instantly, but several were trapped in the rubble for hours or days before being rescued. One who was not rescued was Paul O’Connell, a middle-aged corporate executive. Despite having lived a rich, full life, O’Connell was absolutely terrified of dying. When he awoke and found himself trapped in the collapsed building, he knew his time had come. The fear of dying gripped him as it never had before. He lay there for three agonizing hours until his terror built up to the point where he had a heart attack and died. Rescue workers found his body just an hour later.
O’Connell’s overwhelming terror of death did... something... and the Reaper was created. Even if an expert mystic knew the truth, he’d be hard- pressed to say whether the Reaper is O’Connell’s soul somehow forced to linger on in the world
of the living, an “atavistic being” born of his fear,
a demonic entity summoned by his fright, some combination of these factors, or something else altogether. Whatever it is, it exists only to kill... and it won’t stop until everyone on Earth is dead.
Personality/Motivation: Many people have theo- rized that the Reaper is some sort of embodiment of the essence of death (in fact, he’s described himself that way). But the truth is that the Reaper is a manifestation of the fear of death. He exists only to kill, but he kills to terrify. He wants everyone on Earth to either fall beneath his scythe or live in terror of the day they will.
Quote: “I am the very essence of Death! — and you cannot stop me, for Death is an inevitability.”
Powers/Tactics: The Reaper has only one attack — a lethally-sharp scythe weapon that it has in the place of a right hand. The scythe can cut through nearly anything, including many suits of powered armor. Beyond that, hurting or killing the Reaper is very difficult, and even when heroes think they’ve destroyed him he always returns to life somehow (in game terms, he Regenerates). He can also cross distances in the blink of an eye and hide effortlessly in shadows. Even worse, just getting close to him is so terrifying for most people that his Presence Attacks (which he makes frequently) cause them to run away screaming in fear.
Campaign Use: Like the Monster, the Reaper is a villain that you have to use with care. His HKA is powerful enough to inflict casualties on the PCs before they can stop him if they’re not careful or you get a lucky roll, so make sure they understand the consequences and that you have a backup plan if you don’t want to kill anyone.
To make the Reaper a tougher foe, either increase his SPD or give him more mystical abilities (such as being able to create Darkness fields, or to weaken his foes with Drains). To keep him from being so lethal, reduce the Dark Scythe to HKA 2d6 and remove or diminish his Teleportation.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Some officials have speculated that there may be a link between the Reaper and the Monster (page 210). They’re wrong, but the idea has taken hold in some sectors of the Superhuman World and may lead to some plans being made that will fail due to the misunderstanding.
If he is some sort of fear-spirit, the Reaper may be related to or connected with Samhain somehow. If so, Samhain may be a “higher order” of such beings, since he creates fear in general whereas the Reaper uses and inspires a specific fear (of death).
Appearance: The Reaper is a dark and ominous figure standing 6’3” tall. His face is a bone-white skull with demonic red eyes; it’s framed by the hood of his black calf-length cloak. His body- stocking is dark red-brown; his left glove is
made of black leather with buckles, and he has armbands and legbands to match that glove. His boots and belt are black, with a skull matching his face for a belt buckle. Instead of a right hand, his right arm terminates in a vicious-looking sickle- like weapon made of dark steel.

REAPER FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about the Reaper if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: The Reaper is
a strange, terrifying being who claims
to embody the very essence of Death. First appearing in September 2009, he’s gone on to kill over a thousand people in attacks
all around the world that seem to have no other purpose than spreading murder and mayhem.
K/R: Some officials have speculated that there may be a connection between the Reaper and the Monster.
-1: The Reaper can teleport, and can hide in shadows so well that he’s virtu- ally invisible.
-10: The Reaper first appeared shortly after a building collapse in San Fran- cisco that killed over a hundred people.

15 Inscrutable Mind: Mental Defense (15 points) 0 10 Powerful Form: Power Defense (10 points) 0 57 Death Does Not Bite On Me: Regeneration (2 BODY
per Turn), Can Heal Limbs, Resurrection (does not
work in sunlight) 0 114 Instantaneous Travel: Teleportation 50m, No Relative
Velocity, Position Shift 0
Safe Blind Teleport (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
45 I Can Sense The Living: Detect Life Energy 16- (no Sense Group), Discriminatory, Analyze, Increased
Arc Of Perception (360 Degrees), Ranged, Sense, Targeting 0
24 Merge With The Shadows: Invisibility to Sight Group Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Only When In
Darkness/Shadows (-1⁄4)
Skills
16 +2 HTH
5 Shadowing 14-
3 Stealth 14-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 534 Total Cost: 882
Val Char Cost
10
10 13-
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack: 8d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 Total: 20 PD (20 rPD)
Total: 20 ED (20 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 348
17-
13- 17-
90 Dark Scythe: HKA 3d6 (4d6-1 with STR) Penetrating (x2; +1)
60 Terror Of Death: Drain PRE 4d6
Area Of Effect (8m Radius; +1⁄2), Personal Immunity (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); No Range (-1⁄2)
10 Death Does Not Bite On Me: Hardened (+1⁄4) for 20 PD/20 ED
25 Death Does Not Bite On Me: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 20 PD/20 ED
Hardened (+1⁄4)
60 Death Does Not Bite On Me: Damage Negation (-6 DCs Physical and Energy)
END
4
0
0 0
0
400
25 15
25 20
25
Matching Complications (75)
Distinctive Features: palpable aura of death and evil (Not Concealable; Causes Extreme Reaction [abject fear])
Physical Complication: Lacks Right Hand (Frequently, Slightly Impairing)
Hunted: UNTIL (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) Hunted: The Justice Squadron (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Capture)
Psychological Complication: Exists To Cause Death,
Destruction, And Fear (Very Common, Total)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 482

