Background/History: Robert Kurtwood grew up dreaming about being a superhero. His father was a crime reporter who specialized in stories about superhuman criminals and heroes, and Robert couldn’t imagine anything better than to have superpowers and go on adventures to defeat evil. He was deeply disappointed when he didn’t manifest mutant powers during junior high or high school.
Since fate hadn’t stepped in to help him, he decided he’d just have to find a way to give himself superpowers. He enrolled in college and began studying science, looking for a way to somehow “supercharge” his body so that it would sponta- neously develop superhuman abilities. Finally
his long hours in the lab were rewarded with a breakthrough: he discovered that if he treated his body with certain chemicals, adjusted the equip- ment that ran the university’s supercollider, and then stepped into the supercollider when it was
in operation, there was a 78.97% chance he would gain superpowers (most likely energy projection of some sort).
Well, 78.97% was good enough for Robert! He pilfered the chemicals he needed from the Chem- istry Department and then bribed a few people to get the time he needed to work on the supercol- lider. All was in readiness... he took the drugs, entered the supercollider, and then activated it by remote control.
At first he felt nothing. Then he felt a sort of general “tugging” at his body. The feeling became stronger... and stronger... and then painful. He screamed, but there was no one to hear him and no way to turn off the machine. Soon the pain became so agonizing that he blacked out.
When he came to, he was lying in the supercol- lider, which had shut off automatically based on the timer he’d set. He felt strange, sort of tingly, but he wasn’t glowing or flying or anything. It didn’t work!
Then he heard a noise from back in the control room. They’d found him! Someone knew about all the things he’d done! Terrified that he’d be caught, he got up and ran. Somehow in his panic he found an exit, fumbled it open, and ran through. He tried to shut it and missed... but then without his even touching it, the door slammed shut!
That stopped him for a moment. Maybe it had worked. Maybe he just didn’t have energy projec- tion powers. He gestured at a poster on a nearby wall... and it ripped off! He was a telekinetic!
That turned out not to be the case either. After he got to safety he began experimenting, and he soon discovered he couldn’t do much with teleki- nesis. He finally realized he’d gained some sort of power over kinetic energy — he could impart it to objects to move them, sometimes at high speeds. It wasn’t quite as flashy as energy projection, but it could be just as effective. His mind began mulling over the possibilities... and soon the supervillain Ricochet was born.
Personality/Motivation: The “procedure” that altered Ricochet’s body so it could absorb and manipulate kinetic energy unexpectedly altered his mind as well. Gone is the young man who dreamed of being a superhero, replaced by a para- noid, selfish individual who scoffs at his former ideals. Ricochet’s out to get whatever he can for himself, and damn everyone else. It might be possible to put his mind back the way it was with a lot of psionic surgery... though that might cost him his powers.
Quote: “Right back atcha!”
Powers/Tactics: Ricochet has power over kinetic energy, allowing him to do several things. First,
he can impart kinetic energy to an object, turning it into a missile. Blunt objects do normal damage, up to a maximum of their PD+BODY in d6 (he can’t make them do more than this, no matter how much END he spends), and if they’re larger than normal they can cover an area of up to 8m radius. (Typically he prefers to use smaller objects, though; most of his attacks are in the 6-10 DC range.) Sharp objects like knives and nails do RKA damage, as defined by how they’re built — he can’t make an HKA 1d6+1 dagger do more than RKA 1d6+1 damage. If he has enough objects available, he can even try to Multiple Attack with his power.
Second, Ricochet can Absorb the kinetic energy of incoming attacks (be they Physical or Energy attacks) and use that energy to augment any of his physical Characteristics (e.g., STR, CON, DEX, or the like, but not INT, EGO, or PRE). Given enough kinetic energy to work with, he can make himself superhumanly powerful this way.
Third, Richochet’s powers protect him. He reflexively “bats aside” physical attacks, and if he concentrates he can knock physical missiles out of their flight path so they don’t hit him.
Campaign Use: Ricochet’s an example of good intentions leading to Hell — he wanted to be a superhero, but wound up a supervillain. Psionic surgery could restore his old personality... assuming the PCs ever discover he had another personality before gaining his powers.
To make Ricochet tougher, expand his special effect to cover friction as well as kinetic energy and give him several more powers from the “Kinetic Energy Powers” sections of Champions Powers. You could also increase his SPD. To weaken him, halve his Combat Skill Levels and decrease his Endurance Reserve.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Ricochet is too paranoid to trust anyone enough to work for or with them in any sort of long-term fashion. Occasionally he’ll team up with some other villains for a job, but inevitably his fears get the best of him and the whole thing falls apart.
Appearance: Ricochet is a white male 5’10” tall with an average build. He wears a silver-grey bodystocking with a half-face mask and green gloves, boots, and highlights.

RICOCHET FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Ricochet if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Ricochet is a supervillain with powers over kinetic energy. He can impart energy into physical objects
and turn them into missiles, absorb energy to make himself superhuman powerful, or even “deflect” physical attacks away to protect himself.
-2: Ricochet
seems to be highly paranoid; he has difficulty working for or with other villains.
-10: His Secret Identity is Robert Kurtwood.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
5f 2) Large Blunt Objects: Blast 12d6 9 Area Of Effect (up to 8m Radius, depending on size
of object, see text; +1⁄2); OIF (objects of opportu- nity; -1⁄2), Limited Power (damage depends on PD and BODY of object, see text; -0), Limited Range (40m; -1⁄4)
2f 3) Sharp Objects: RKA 3d6 4
OIF (objects of opportunity; -1⁄2), Limited Power (damage depends on nature of object, see text; -0), Limited Range (40m; -1⁄4), Beam (-1⁄4)
12 Kinetic Manipulation: Telekinesis (10 STR) 1 Limited Range (40m; -1⁄4)
81 Kinetic Absorption: Absorption 36 BODY (to any
physical Characteristic) 0
Variable Effect (any one physical Characteristic at a time; +1⁄2), Varying Effect (+3⁄4)
12 Reflexive Deflection: Resistant Protection (14 PD) 2 Costs Endurance (-1⁄2), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
13 Planned Deflection: Deflection 2 Only Works Against Physical Projectiles (-1⁄4),
Unified Power (-1⁄4)
16 Armored Costume: Resistant Protection (8 PD/8 ED) 0
OIF (-1⁄2)
Skills
12 +4 with Kinetic Missiles Multipower
3 Acrobatics 13-
3 Breakfall 13-
1 Computer Programming 8- 3 Deduction 12-
1 Electronics 8-
2 KS: The Superhuman World 11-
2 SS: Human Biology 11-
2 SS: Mathematics 11-
3 SS: Physics 12-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Systems Operation 12- Total Powers & Skills Cost: 273 Total Cost: 386
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: the Champions (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Capture)
15 Psychological Complication: Callously Selfish (Common,
Strong)
10 Psychological Complication: Paranoid; Thinks Every-
one’s Out To Get Him (Common, Moderate)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Robert Kurtwood)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0
10 STR 20 DEX 15 CON 13 INT 10 EGO 15 PRE
0 11- 20 13- 5 12- 3 12- 0 11- 5 12-
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 3d6
7 OCV 20 7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0
3 DMCV 0
4 SPD 20 Phases: 3, 6, 9, 12
8 PD
8 ED
5 REC 1 30END 2 10 BODY 0
30 STUN
Movement: Running:
6 Total: 30 PD (22 rPD) 6 Total: 16 ED (8 rED)
5 Total Characteristics Cost: 113 12m
Cost Powers
39 Energy Reserves: Endurance Reserve (100 END, 21 REC)
51 Kinetic Missiles: Multipower, 90-point reserve All slots OIF (objects of opportunity; -1⁄2), Limited Range (40m; -1⁄4)
4f 1) Regular Blunt Objects: Blast 18d6
OIF (objects of opportunity; -1⁄2), Limited Power (damage depends on PD and BODY of object, see text; -0), Limited Range (40m; -1⁄4), Beam (-1⁄4)

