Background/History: Convinced she could make it big as a singer, Margie Preston ran away from her home in Iowa to the Big City shortly before her eighteenth birthday. Unfortunately, what awaited her was not stardom, but poverty and misery. With just ten dollars in her pocket when she arrived, she was easy pickings for a handsome guy at the bus station who offered to “help her out.”
Unlike so many girls trapped in these desperate circumstances, Margie didn’t wind up working
the streets. The man she met was a Brother in DEMON. He gleefully turned her over to his masters for their dark rituals. Seeing her as
good fodder for “an experiment,” one of the Morbanes cast a spell that bonded her with a water elemental. He hoped to obtain a servant with the powers of the elemental, but the pliability of the scared and easily-dominated girl.
What he got was a superhuman too powerful for him to handle. Crazed with fear and newfound power, Margie smashed her way out of the Demonhame and into the streets. Somehow she eluded capture by both DEMON and the police long enough for her wits to return. She realized she could never go back home now — and she couldn’t become a rock star, either. But as long as she had superpowers, she intended to live the life of luxury she’d always dreamed of!
Personality/Motivation: Riptide started her supervillain career as little more than a naive, insecure girl motivated mostly by greed. She used her powers to steal all kinds of luxuries she’d
never had growing up in a poor family (and that includes all the collector’s Barbie dolls she can carry, to replace the ones she left behind in Iowa). Her insecurity made her easy pickings for anyone with enough force of personality to seduce or bully her, and as a result she worked for a lot of more experienced supervillains and came away with little or nothing to show for it.
The greed remains, but her insecurity has been burned out of her by experience. She’s no longer easy to dominate; she’s been around the block enough times to learn how to stand up for herself. In fact, these days anyone who takes “an attitude” on her (as she puts it) or tries to use her is likely to get a Water Blast in the face.
Quote: “Sorry to be such a wet blanket....”
Powers/Tactics: Riptide’s powers are water-based — they derive from her being bonded with a water elemental as part of a magic ritual. She can project blasts of water, choke a victim by filling his lungs with water or blind and deafen him with a properly-directed splash. Her semi-liquid form is difficult to damage, and she can become wholly liquid to slip through grates, cracks, and the like. And, of course, she can swim extremely fast.
Despite years of experience, Riptide has never really developed much of a sense of tactics. She picks a target and attacks him until he falls down, or she does. She’s discovered the hard way that Ice/ Cold powers cause her a lot of pain, so she avoids cold-using superheroes or, if cornered, attacks in
a fury with Pushed Blasts in the hope of getting away.
Most of Riptide’s abilities are usable only when she’s in her water form. However, since there’s little or no way to stop her from transforming in most situations, they’re not bought with the Only In Alternate Identity Limitation.
Campaign Use: Riptide is a good, basic villain who could work for just about anyone. She’s learned to pull jobs on her own, but generally prefers having a partner or team to fall back on. Under the right superheroic influences, she might even reform and become a hero — she’s not a bad person, really, she just wants all the “good things” she’s never had.
If Riptide’s too weak for your campaign, increase her SPD to 6, her REC to 15, and her END to 60. You might also add a few slots to her Multipower. If she’s too strong, knock her SPD down to 4 and reduce her Multipower to a 60 Active Point reserve.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Over the years Riptide’s worked with many villains, though she prefers to avoid the more dangerous or deranged ones (and that includes VIPER, most
of the time). The Ultimates, Merc-Force 1, and GRAB are among her favorite employers; she’d make an excellent member of the latter group if they ever decide to expand. (She could possibly be lured into the Futurists as well, though she prob- ably wouldn’t stick around once she learned of their true agenda.)
Riptide was part of Holocaust’s 2006 “Alli- ance” villain team and enjoyed the experience even though it wasn’t a success; she keeps hoping he’ll put the team back together again. One of the villains she met during that mission was Leviathan, and they’ve become friends. It’s not
a romantic relationship at all, they just enjoy hanging out underwater.
DEMON remains a serious thorn in Riptide’s side. The Morbane who created her wants her back, no matter what it takes. His plan is to create an “Elemental Evils” team of Blowtorch, Riptide, Temblor, and Zephyr (though he’d prefer a true superhuman to Blowtorch, if he can find one that fits). This would give him a powerful weapon
to wield against his rivals and enemies, though assembling the team would cause problems with the Crowns Of Krim that DEMON would prob- ably prefer to avoid....
Appearance: In her normal human form, Margie Preston is a pretty white woman in her mid-thir- ties with shoulder-length wavy brown hair, brown eyes, and an attractive figure. As Riptide, she has the same figure, but appears to be made entirely of water. She can transform from one state to the other with but a thought.

RIPTIDE FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Riptide if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Riptide is a supervillainess
with water control powers. She can project powerful blasts of water, swim at tremendous speeds, and even transform her entire body into water.
K/R: Her real name is Margie Preston; from 2006 until the 2009 breakout she was a prisoner in Stronghold.
-4: Ice/Cold attacks are particularly effective against Riptide.
-8: There’s a faint mystic “tinge” to Riptide’s powers, as if they have some sort of arcane source.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
Cost Powers
END
7 8 0 6
0
0 0
0
20 STR 10 13- 24 DEX 28 14- 20 CON 10 13- 14 INT 4 12- 10 EGO 0 11- 15 PRE 5 12-
8 OCV 25 8 DCV 25 3 OMCV 0
75 7f
7f 7f 6f
5f
36 45
13 27
18
4
Water Powers: Multipower, 75-point reserve 1) Water Blast I: Blast 10d6
Double Knockback (+1⁄2) 2) Water Blast II: Blast 10d6
Area Of Effect (32m Line; +1⁄2) 3) Water Blast III: Blast 10d6
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2) 4) Filled Lungs: Blast 6d6
NND (defense is Life Support [Expanded Breathing: Breathe Underwater or Self-Contained Breathing]; +1)
5) Splash In The Face: Sight and Hearing Group Flash 6d6
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
Water Form: Resistant Protection (12 PD/12 ED)
Water Form: Physical Damage Reduction, Resistant, 50%
plus: Energy Damage Reduction, Resistant, 25% Aquatic Adaptation: Life Support (Self-Contained
Breathing, Safe Environment: High Pressure,
Lift 400 kg; 4d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 3d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 24 PD (12 rPD)
Total: 22 ED (12 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 178
Movement: Running:
Swimming: 40m
3 DMCV 5 SPD
0 30
12 PD
10 ED 10REC 6 80 END 12 10 BODY 0 30 STUN 5
10 8
12m
Intense Cold)
Liquid Intangibility: Desolidification (affected by cold
or fire) 4
Cannot Pass Through Solid Objects (-1⁄2)
Superb Swimmer: Swimming +36m (40m total) 2
Skills
+2 with Swimming
2
2
2
2
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 258 Total Cost: 436
KS: Barbie Dolls 11- KS: Rock Music 11- PS: Singing 11- Streetwise 10-
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: DEMON (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 25 Hunted: the Champions (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Greedy; Out For All She
Can Get For Herself (Very Common, Strong) 20 Psychological Complication: Code Versus Killing
(Common, Total)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Marjorie Preston)
(Frequently, Major)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Ice/Cold Attacks
(Uncommon)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x BODY from Ice/Cold Attacks
(Uncommon)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 36

