Background/History: Viktor Zatopek was a nondescript UNTIL agent until the Future Soldier Program got hold of him. Born in Brno in 1972, he joined the Czech Army in 1990 but soon applied to UNTIL in search of more interesting work and the opportunity to travel. By 1994 he’d graduated from UNTIL Basic Training and been assigned as an Urban agent to the UNTIL offices in Copenhagen, where he served for almost three years. Then came the fateful call from Technical Corps — according to his medical records, he was an excellent candidate for the Future Soldier Program. If he volunteered for the procedures, he would at least get six months’ leave in California and at best become a superhero! How could any adventurous young man turn down such an offer? Viktor was on the next plane out.
The following six months were a blur of tests, injections, radiation, and exercise. Viktor occa- sionally caught glimpses of his fellow “guinea pigs,” but for the most part Dr. Strasky kept the agents isolated from each other. One day late in the process, Viktor accidentally caught a glimpse of a horribly deformed man being whisked out of the TC facility and to a hospital; he began to fear that might be his own fate. After all, his muscles were beginning to ache every night, and he couldn’t shake this vague headache he’d picked up.
Viktor became increasingly tense and irritable. He began to suspect that his doctors were secretly trying to kill him. He vowed he wouldn’t go down without a fight, and the next day when the lab orderlies came to take him to the gym, he killed both of them with his bare hands and fled the facility wearing only a smock.
Despite his now full-blown paranoia, Viktor retained his basic training and instincts, and over the next few months he killed a series of people and used their identities to work his way back to Europe. By the time he got there, he was much more comfortable with his enhanced abilities. He made himself available as a mercenary assassin
to organized criminals in his home country.
On an early mission for some Prague mobsters
he “acquired” a sword apparently made from questionite that a scientist behind in his gambling debts had designed, and kept it for himself. Not long afterwards, he created the costumed iden- tity of Scimitar so he could move into the “big leagues” as an operative for European organized crime. He’s quickly climbing the ranks of Conti- nental supervillainy, and even Eurostar has noted his bloody efficiency. UNTIL suspects, but has not yet confirmed, his identity.
Personality/Motivation: Scimitar is a paranoid schizophrenic with real enemies. He believes UNTIL is out to get him (which it is, but for different reasons than he imagines), and blames it for anything that goes wrong in his life.

He continues to suffer from anxiety and head- aches resulting from the failed FSP regimen, but usually contains the symptoms while on the job (and drowns them in alcohol and pills between assignments). When on assignment for one of the various criminal families he works for, he’s thor- oughly professional and emotionless.
Quote: “They’re still out there. They’re watching me, always watching, waiting for me to trip up. I’ll show them.”
Powers/Tactics: Scimitar has both the physical enhancements of the FSP program and the basic training of an UNTIL agent. He’s superhumanly quick and durable, and can benchpress a car.
He’s also become quite skilled with his namesake sword, forged from questionite and therefore stronger and lighter than steel. He admires its elegance and wields it like an artist, trying to cripple limbs and terrorize his opponents in hand- to-hand combat.
Scimitar suffers from intense migraines on occasion. Whenever you plan to use him in a scenario, roll 3d6. On an 11-, he suffers a migraine at some crucial point. The migraine lasts for 2d6 Phases; during that time he suffers a -2 to all rolls.


Campaign Use: Scimitar is an excellent villain
to use in any campaign with a heavy UNTIL emphasis. Not only can he effectively oppose at least some superheroes, but for GMs inclined to run conspiracy-oriented scenarios he could lead to the exposure of a dark underbelly of UNTIL.
If you want to make Scimitar tougher, increase his STR, defenses, and reflexes (DEX and SPD). You could also give him some other questionite weapons. If he’s already too strong, remove some of his Martial Maneuvers and his blaster, and reduce his Characteristics slightly.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Scimitar
has mostly worked for conventional organized crime groups (including Slun’s organization), but has some contact with the Superhuman World. Other superhuman mercenaries — Hazard,
Lazer, Mechassassin, Steel Commando, and most especially other blade-wielders like Double Dealer and Stiletto — are his business rivals, though he’s sometimes forced to work with them. He and Stiletto particularly hate each other; it’s only a matter of time before they settle their differences in the most permanent fashion.
Scimitar has a bit of a crush on Smoke and Mirrors, whom he did a job with a while ago. Unfortunately neither of them has responded positively to his attempts to start a relationship... yet.
Appearance: Scimitar wears a black bodysuit with dark blue highlights, a black mask, and a blue sash around his waist. He’s in excellent shape, and stands 6’3” with dark brown hair and brown eyes. His namesake weapon has a glittering silver-blue blade made of pure questionite.

SCIMITAR FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Scimitar if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Scimitar is a superhumanly fast and strong mercenary whose signature weapon is a ques- tionite scimitar that can cut through nearly anything.
K/R: Scimitar also carries a blaster pistol and has martial arts training.
-1: Scimitar is mostly active in Europe and Russia, but he goes wherever the jobs are.
-2: Based on his accent and speech patterns, Scimitar is originally from somewhere in Central or Eastern Europe.
-4: Scimitar suffers from intense migraines that sometimes interfere with his ability to fight.
-10: His Secret Identity is Viktor Zatopek; he used to be an UNTIL agent and gained his superhuman abilities from Future Soldier Program treatments.

8 Future Soldier Swiftness: Running +8m (20m total) 1 4 Future Soldier Leaping: Leaping +8m (12m forward,
6m upward) 1 7 Mask Communicator: HRRP (Radio Group) 0
IIF (-1⁄4), Affected As Sight And Hearing Groups As Well As Radio Group (-1⁄2)
4 Mask Lenses: Nightvision 0 IIF (-1⁄4)
Perks
2 Contact: European underworld “fixer” 8- (Contact has significant Contacts of his own)
5 Money: Well Off
Talents
15 Combat Sense 12- 3 Lightsleep
Skills
32 +4 HTH
3 Breakfall 14-
3 Combat Driving 14-
3 Criminology 12-
3 Interrogation 13-
3 KS: Mercenary world (INT-based) 12-
2 KS: UNTIL 11-
2 KS: World Politics 11-
2 Language: English (fluent conversation; Czech is Native) 2 PS: UNTIL Agent 11-
3 Shadowing 12-
3 Stealth 14-
3 Streetwise 13-
3 Tactics 12-
5 WF: Common Melee Weapons, Small Arms, Grenade
Launchers
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 227 Total Cost: 457
400 Matching Complications (75)
15 Enraged: when fighting UNTIL agents (Uncommon), go 11-, recover 11-
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: Russian Government (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Capture)
20 Physical Complication: suffers from migraines (see text)
(Frequently, Greatly Impairing)
20 Psychological Complication: Hates UNTIL (Common,
Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Amoral and Greedy
(Common, Strong)
20 Psychological Complication: Code Of The Mercenary
(Common, Total)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Viktor Zatopek)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 57
Val Char Cost Roll
Notes
Lift 1,600 kg; 6d6 HTH damage [3]
20 Questionite Scimitar: HKA 2d6 (3d6+1 with STR) Armor Piercing (x2; +1⁄2); OAF (-1), No Knockback (-1⁄4)
Martial Arts: Scimitar Fighting Maneuver OCV DCV Notes
4
5 All-out Attack +1 -2
4 Bind +1 +0
5 Charge +1 +0
Weapon +4 DC Strike Bind, 50 STR
Weapon +2 DCs + v/10; FMove
Martial Arts: UNTIL Combat Training
Maneuver OCV DCV
Notes
Block, Abort Disarm, 40 STR
Dodge, Affects All Attacks, Abort
Grab One Limb, 3d6 NND(2) 45 STR vs. Grabs
8d6 Strike
Grab Three Limbs, 40 STR
4 Block 4 Disarm 4 Dodge
4 Choke
4 Escape
4 Punch
4 Restrain
3 Throw
1 Use Art with Blades
+2 +2 -1 +1 — +5
-2 +0
+0 +0
+0 +2
-1 -1
+16d6 + v/10; Target Falls
20 Blaster Pistol: RKA 2d6 [12] +2 Increased STUN Multiplier (+1⁄2); OAF (-1),
12 Charges (-1⁄4)
5 Future Soldier Toughness: Resistant (+1⁄2)
for 5 PD/5 ED 0
16 Armored Costume: Resistant Protection (8 PD/8 ED) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)

