Val Char Cost Roll
Notes
Lift 400 kg; 4d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 20 PD (12 rPD)
Total: 20 ED (12 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 193
20m 20m
8 OCV 25 7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0 6 DMCV 9 5 SPD 30
10 PD 8 10 ED 8 10REC 6 60 END 8 13 BODY 3 40 STUN 10
Movement: Running: Leaping:
Cost Powers
END
75 Darkness Creation: Darkness to Sight Group
10m radius 3 Personal Immunity (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance
(1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
60 Darkness Powers: Multipower, 60-point reserve
6f 1) Fist Of Darkness: Blast 12d6 6 5f 2) Shadow-walking: 60m Teleportation 6
Only Through Darkness/Shadows (-1⁄4)
5f 3) The Souldark: Drain BODY 4d6 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Only Versus
Targets In Darkness/Shadow (-1⁄4)
5f 4) The Terror Of The Dark: Drain PRE 4d6 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Only Versus
Targets In Darkness/Shadow (-1⁄4)
4f 5) The Mantle Of Shadow: Invisibility to Sight Group, No
Fringe
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Only In Darkness/ Shadow (-1⁄4)
4f 6) Shadow-Wall: Barrier 8 PD/8 ED, 8 BODY (up to 8m long, 3m tall, and 1⁄2m thick), Opaque (Sight Group) Costs Endurance (to maintain; -1⁄2)
0
5
Martial Arts: Hwarang-Do
Maneuver
4 Block 4 Choke
OCV DCV
Damage/Effect
Block, Abort
Grab One Limb; 31⁄2d6 NND(2)
31⁄2d6 NND(1)
9d6 Strike
4 Finger Strike
4 Hand Strike/Elbow +0
Strike/Snap Kick 5 Joint Break
3 Joint Lock
5 Kick 5 Throw
Grab One Limb; HKA 11⁄2d6 (3d6 with STR), Disable
Grab One Limb, 45 STR for holding on
11d6 Strike
HKA 11⁄2d6 (3d6 with STR); Target Falls
12 +3 Damage Classes (already added in)

24 Dark Shield: Resistant Protection (12 PD/12 ED) 2 Costs Endurance (-1⁄2)
10 Dark Shield: Power Defense (10 points) 0 8 Swift: Running +8m (20m total) 1 8 Strong Leaper: Leaping +16m (20m forward, 10m
upward) 1
Perks
6 Contact: the Warlord 11- (extremely useful resources, significant Contacts of his own)
Talents
15 Combat Sense 13-
Skills
16 +2 HTH
10 +2 with Darkness Powers Multipower
3 Acrobatics 13-
3 Breakfall 13-
2 CK: Seoul 11-
1 CK: San Francisco 8-
1 CK: Millennium City 8-
2 KS: The Espionage World 11-
2 KS: Hwarang-Do 11-
2 KS: Korean Healing 11-
2 KS: Korean History 11-
2 KS: Korean Legends & Folklore 11- 2 KS: The Martial World 11-
2 Language: English (fluent conversation; Korean is Native)
3 Paramedics 13-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Streetwise 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 340 Total Cost: 533
400 Matching Complications (75)
15 Distinctive Features: eerie voice (Not Concealable, Noticed And Recognizable)
10 Distinctive Features: Style (Not Concealable, Noticed And Recognizable, Detectable By Large Group)
5 Distinctive Features: dragon tattoo on chest (Easily Concealed; Noticed And Recognizable)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 10 Hunted: Shugoshin (Infrequently, As Pow, Capture) 20 Psychological Complication: Mercenary; Will Do
Anything For Money (Very Common, Strong) 10 Psychological Complication: Fascinated By Evil
(Common, Moderate)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Park Yong-sun)
(Frequently, Major)
10 Susceptibility: 1d6 per Turn from Holy Objects/Places
(Uncommon)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Light attacks (Uncommon) 10 Vulnerability: 2 x BODY from Light attacks (Uncommon) 20 Vulnerability: 2 x Effect from Sight Group Flashes
(Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 33

Background/History: Yong-sun cupped his hands together. Then he bent over and looked inside them. He looked for a long, long time, then he went to show his mother.
“Mama! Mama!” he cried excitedly. “Guess what I’ve got,” he said, showing her his clasped hands.
His mother looked at him, expecting a frog or something equally exciting. “I don’t know, son. What is it?”
“Guess!”
“Hmmm. An elephant.”
“No! Guess again!”
“If it’s not an elephant, it must be a mouse.” “No! Look,” Yong-sun said, holding his hands
up to her.
She looked, but couldn’t see anything. “I don’t
see it, son, what is it?”
He looked at her exasperatedly. “It’s darkness,
Mama! Isn’t it pretty?”
His mother laughed, said that it was, and told
him to go play. Yong-sun ran outside, but he couldn’t understand why his mother didn’t see the darkness like he did. It was right there! How could she not see it, how pretty it was?
Yong-sun’s fascination with darkness lasted through his childhood and into his adolescence. At times he would stay up all night just to feel like he was a part of it. Then, one day, the darkness
in his hands spoke to him! “Wouldn’t you like to see more of me, without having to put your hands together?” it whispered alluringly.
“Yes!” Yong-sun said excitedly.
“Then pull at me — pull with your mind,” the darkness said.
Yong-sun concentrated, and thought hard, and pulled and pulled. Eventually he felt a sort of “pop” in his mind, and there it was, right in front of him — a cloudy, dark thing, darker than anything he had ever seen before. It was amazing!
Yong-sun wanted to create more of these dark things, and asked his new “friend” how to do it. Over the next several nights, the dark thing taught him how to manifest all sorts of darkness powers, in exchange for Yong-sun’s promise to do certain... things. Yong-sun didn’t care about the promises, all he wanted to do was create darkness.
Since that time, Yong-sun has had the ability to create darkness and manipulate it in various ways. He’s constantly trying to develop new darkness powers, and his fascination with his powers only continues to grow.
Personality/Motivation: Yong-sun has used his darkness powers and hwarang-do training to become the martial artist mercenary and assassin Shadowdragon. He’ll take any job he feels he can pull off, no matter how evil or destructive it is — when he sold his soul to the being who gave him his powers, any human kindness, sympathy, or mercy he might have possessed went with it. His heart is as black as the darkness fields he generates.
Now the thought of evil consumes him; at times he seems determined to test himself, to find out if there’s anything so vile and wicked he will not do it. He has yet to reach his limit.
Yong-sun is absolutely fascinated by his dark- ness powers, and by darkness in general. He thinks of it as a living thing, talks to it, and considers it his friend and protector. He always hopes that the darkness will answer him, as it did before.
Quote: “My darkness will consume you.”
Powers/Tactics: Shadowdragon, in addition to being a competent practitioner of hwarang-do, is able to manipulate a mysterious “dark force” of some sort. Some martial artists can detect this as a sort of “dark ch’i” or evil life force. He can use it for obvious things (such as blocking his oppo- nents’ vision), or he can fire darkforce Blasts, step from one patch of darkness or shadow to another without crossing the intervening space, or use the darkness to drain the life-force of those within it. Whether this ability is a mutation or some sort
of “granted” power is debatable; Shadowdragon thinks of it as a “gift” from the Darkness, and makes sure to “feed” his powers with the Souldark as often as possible.
Shadowdragon knows how to make good tactical use of his powers. For example, if he
needs to use his hwarang-do, he usually puts a darkness field around himself and his target(s) so they’re blinded and thus easy prey. He’ll also set up several darkness fields around the battlefield so he can quickly teleport around; if necessary, he makes them fairly small so that he has to pay less END for them. (Note: pay close attention to Shadow- dragon’s END usage, since many of his powers use a lot of END; if he gets too tired, he’ll flee rather than run out of power and be captured.)

Shadowdragon often uses his powers so that the darkness appears to rise from the dragon tattoo on his chest. This may lead some heroes to think the tattoo is a kind of Focus; in fact, this is just an effect, and the tattoo an ordinary one.
Campaign Use: Shadowdragon makes a good mercenary villain, particularly if you want to
vary a team a little from the more typical Lazer- Mechassassin model of super-mercs. His powers may also provide you with some plot seeds. The exact nature of who or what “spoke” to Shadow- dragon through the darkness in his cupped hands remains a mystery; it may be an evil sorcerer, Dark Seraph, or many other beings. Doctor Yin Wu once said, after encountering Park Yong-sun, “the Death Dragon has touched him,” so many people believe that to be the source of Shadowdragon’s powers.
If Shadowdragon isn’t powerful enough for your campaign, increase some of his Characteris- tics (primarily DEX, CON, SPD, and REC), up his Multipower to a 75 Active Point reserve and slots (or more), and add more Extra Damage Classes. If he’s too tough already, get rid of his Extra DCs and one or two of his Multipower slots.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Shadow- dragon has worked extensively for the Warlord
in the East and remains on good terms with him (though the members of the War Machine tend to resent his “interference”).
Appearance: Shadowdragon is a 5’10” tall muscular Korean. He wears skintight dark blue pants that end at mid-calf, and matching soft shoes like many martial artists wear. He goes barechested so the magnificent dragon tattoo drawn on his chest in dark blue ink can be seen. He is bald except for a long topknot. His voice has a distinctive eerie, unearthly quality.

SHADOWDRAGON FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Shadowdragon if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Shadowdragon is a martial artist with darkness powers. He can create fields of impenetrable shadow, fire blasts of “dark force,” and even teleport from one patch of shadow to another.
K/R: Shadowdragon practices hwarang-do.
-1: Shadowdragon can see through his own Darkness fields
without any difficulty.
-4: Based on his speech patterns and accent, Shadow- dragon is probably Korean. Doctor Yin Wu has suggested that the Death Dragon is the source of his powers.
-6: Light-based attacks and Flashes are particularly effec- tive against Shadowdragon.
-8: Exposure to holy objects and places causes Shadow- dragon pain.
-10: His Secret Identity is Park Yong-sun. It’s unclear where his powers come from.

