Background/History: In the biochemistry labs
at Bio-Investigations Ltd., Diana Whitmore enjoyed a not particularly pleasant reputation as a prankster and practical joker. She couldn’t stand it if someone played a joke on her, but could never resist the opportunity to make someone else the victim of an elaborate prank.
One day, she was setting up a prank that would make her stuffy old labmate, Sherry Bridwell, fall on her butt and slide right out into the hall. Unfor- tunately, she didn’t watch what she was doing, and slipped and fell herself — but slid the wrong way, right into a shelf full of test tubes and beakers. As the shelf collapsed on her, she was doused with the results of Project 37B-12, “Analysis of Growth Hormones in Mammals,” and Project 51R-23, “Mutative Biochemistry.”
Diana woke up in the hospital. At first everyone thought the accident hadn’t had any effect — except to cost her her job — but she soon discovered she’d somehow gained the power to shrink down to a quarter of an inch tall! She began experimenting, and soon discovered all sorts of other things she could do with her new superpowers. It’s amazing what a quarter-inch-tall woman can accomplish if she sets her mind to it.
Eager for fame and glory, Diana joined the Sentinels as Shrinker, a probationary member. She learned a lot in her months with the team, but she soon began to think the self-sacrificing life of a hero just wasn’t for her. These guys were all work and no play; it just wasn’t any fun.
Then, one day, when the Sentinels battled the Ultimates, Shrinker was nearly disintegrated by one of her own teammates! He claimed he hadn’t known she was so close — after all, he couldn’t
see things that were so small — but she was pretty sure he’d done it deliberately, to get rid of her. Well, if they didn’t want her, fine! In a huff she quit the team and stormed out.
She decided it was no big loss. Being a hero was boring. With her powers, she could have a lot more fun as a supervillain! Just to prove how good she’d be at it, she snuck back into Sentinels headquarters, got inside their master computer, and made it activate the sprinkler system while everyone was asleep. Laughing so hard she could barely fly straight, she beat a hasty retreat.
Since then, Shrinker’s been doing quite well for herself as a villainess. She finds her criminal career a lot more satisfying than being a hero — not to mention a lot more lucrative.
Personality/Motivation: Shrinker pretends to
be fun-loving and lighthearted, but at heart she’s usually mean-spirited and petty. She’s quick to take offense for the slightest of reasons, and not even an abject apology is likely to mollify her. People who annoy her this way usually become the victim of one of her practical jokes, which range from the elaborate to just shy of deadly. It’s surprisingly easy to cause a lot of torment when you’re only an inch tall (or shorter).

Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
10 STR 20 DEX 25 CON 10 INT 10 EGO 20 PRE
0
20 13- 15 14-
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 11- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 13 PD (3 rPD)
Total: 13 ED (3 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 153
12m 32m
8 OCV 25 7 DCV 20
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
5 SPD 10 PD
10 ED
7 REC 3
50 END
10 BODY 0
30 STUN
Movement: Running:
Flight:
SHRINKER
21 Microflight: Flight 32m 3 Linked (to Shrinking, gains 4m Flight per 10 points of
Shrinking used; -1⁄2)
18 Enter The Microverse!: Extra-Dimensional Movement (any location in a single dimension [the Microverse], correspondingtothepointshe’satinthisdimension) 0 Unified Power (-1⁄4)
25 Spatial Correspondence Detection: Detect Point In Normal-Sized Space Corresponding To Current Position In The Microverse 18- (no Sense Group), Dimensional, Targeting 0
Talents
6 Combat Luck (3 PD/3 ED)
Skills
1 Computer Programming 8-
2 SS: Biology 11-
2 SS: Chemistry 11-
3 Stealth 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 247 Total Cost: 400
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
25 Hunted: Sentinels (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Psychological Complication: Enjoys Humiliating Oppo-
nents (Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Easily Offended (Common,
Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Hatred Of Superheroes In
General, And The Sentinels In Particular (Common,
Strong)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Diana Whitmore)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0
0
0 10
11- 11- 13-
30
8
8
6 5
11-
Cost Powers END
48 MicroScale: Shrinking (.008 m tall [about .25 inch], .0000063 kg mass, -16 to PER Rolls to perceive character, +16 DCV, takes +48m KB)
Costs Endurance Only To Activate (+1⁄4); Unified Power (-1⁄4)
80 Microscopic Combat: Multipower, 80-point reserve 3f 1) Internal Agony I: HKA 1d6+1
Affects Physical World (+2), Penetrating (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Only When Deso- lidified Inside Target (-1), No STR Bonus (-1⁄2)
5f 2) Internal Agony II: Blast 9d6
Indirect (enables Transdimensional; +1⁄4), Transdi- mensional (from the Microverse to the normal-sized world; +1⁄2); No Range (must be “inside” target; -1⁄2)
5f 3) Optic Nerve Trampoline: Sight Group Flash 9d6
Indirect (enables Transdimensional; +1⁄4), Transdi- mensional (from the Microverse to the normal-sized world; +1⁄2); No Range (must be “inside” target; -1⁄2)
3f 4) Growth Momentum: HA +16d6
Proportional (HA dice used can’t exceed DCV bonus from Shrinking in use at the time; -1⁄2), Lockout (character must start the Phase Shrunk and turn it off to use this attack; -1⁄2), Only Works Against Properly- Positioned Opponents (it only works if the target is standing directly above the Shrunk character; -1⁄4)
2f 5) Surfing The Net: Teleportation 20m MegaScale (1m = 10 km; +11⁄4); Only Through
Phone Lines (-1)
23 Walking Between Molecules: Desolidification (affected
by any attack that breaks the object she’s in)
Only To Pass Through Solid Objects (-1⁄2), Unified Power (-1⁄4)

Shrinker feels she’s been unfairly victimized and hurt by superheroes, first and foremost the Sentinels (who sneakily tried to kill her rather than just kick her off the team). She loves humili- ating and hurting heroes, and sometimes goes out of her way to get her shots in when she should
be concentrating on completing her mission or making her getaway.
Quote: “It’s the little things in life that count!”
Powers/Tactics: Shrinker’s powers all revolve around her ability to reduce herself to extremely tiny sizes. She can reach one-quarter inch in height without any significant effort. With a little more work, she can become small enough to walk or fly between molecules (handy for passing right through walls and floors, though any attack that breaks the object she’s in hurts her, too). She can even enter the “Microverse” — the universe of atoms and things not much larger. While there, she remains aware of her position relative to normal-sized space, even though she’s effec- tively in another world and immune from harm (though, in the GM’s discretion, a sufficiently powerful Area Of Effect attack might effectively be considered “Transdimensional” for purposes of affecting the Microverse and its inhabitants). As she shrinks, she can harness her body’s latent energies to fly (the smaller she gets, the faster she flies, up to 32m).
When it’s time for combat, Shrinker knows how to put her tiny form to good use. Typically, to affect an opponent she has to become really tiny and get inside him — either via her own powers (Desolidification or Extra-Dimensional Move- ment), or perhaps by tricking him into swallowing her or the like. Once she’s inside, she can wreak
all sorts of havoc by jumping around, and can even cause severe internal injuries this way. She can even temporarily blind someone by jumping up and down on his optic nerve. This attack is more effective when she’s just small enough to
fit between molecules (thus, her Penetrating HKA) than when she’s in the Microverse, because then she’s often too small to really have an effect (thus, it’s only an EB, not Penetrating — but since she’s “inside” the target, the GM may allow it to bypass defenses like powered armor or external force-fields).
If Internal Agony won’t work, Shrinker can always try the good old-fashioned trick of growing back to normal height under the target’s chin and punching him in the process — a manever that allows her to do as much as 18d6 damage! (At the GM’s option, this attack may be too powerful for her to handle; she might break her hand or take partial damage, as if performing a Move By.) She doesn’t like to attain full size during battle, though; her low defenses and lack of attacks makes her too vulnerable.


Campaign Use: Shrinker’s powers make her ideal as a spy, cat burglar (ant burglar?), and saboteur for master villains and villain teams — not to mention a pretty successful robber on her own. Her ability to enter the Universe of Really Really Tiny Stuff may also make for some interesting adventure hooks.
If Shrinker’s too weak for your game, boost her defenses by giving her an Armored Costume (8 PD/8 ED, maybe more), up her SPD to 6, and give her a straightforward Blast or two that work on the same energy-harnessing principle as her Flight. If she’s too difficult for the PCs to come
to grips with, get rid of some of her size-based special powers (but leave her at least one or two).
Shrinker is quick to start Hunting a hero that offends her (not a hard thing for a PC to do), though as a Hunter she’s more of a pest than a real danger. She attacks via pranks and practical jokes, and though they may cause some harm, they’re rarely as much of a threat as an attack by Mechanon or Eurostar.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Shrinker’s had a long and varied career during which she’s worked with many other supervillains. At first many villains were reluctant to trust her, fearing she was part of some Sentinels “undercover scheme,” but she soon proved that she was a genuine criminal. She’s worked with or part- nered with, among others, the Ultimates, Esper, Thunderbolt II, Zephyr, and Gargantua. The latter makes for an interesting “Mutt and Jeff ” sort of team; on the other hand, Esper couldn’t tolerate Shrinker’s general attitude and personality, so
the two of them now hate one another. Shrinker’s also teamed up with Utility and/or Mirage a time or two (though they’re usually reluctant to accept superpowered help); her love of humili- ating heroes dovetails nicely with their desire to prove that “normal” people are just as good as superhumans.
Appearance: Shrinker wears a white costume with red bands around the legs and arms, plus a red belt and boots. She doesn’t wear gloves, and hasn’t bothered to wear a mask since her identity was exposed to the public. Her is long, black, and straight; her eyes green.

SHRINKER FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Shrinker if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Shrinker is a supervillainess with the ability to shrink. She can reach a height of approxi- mately 0.25 inch without any signifi- cant effort; with concentration she can become small enough to enter the Microverse.
K/R: Her real name is Diana Whitmore; she used to be a heroic member of the Sentinels, but betrayed the team and became a supervillainess.
-1: Shrinker can become small enough to get “inside” a target’s body and inflict all sorts of serious internal harm.
-2: Shrinker loves to play practical jokes on, and otherwise humiliate, super- heroes — and the stuffier or more serious the hero, the more fun he is to torment.

