Background/History: Lisa Sutherland was a professional thief. She’d always had a wild, romantic streak while growing up in Green Bay, Wisconsin, and spent a lot of her time reading paperbacks full of dashing thieves and roguish pirates who defied law and convention with great style and joie de vivre. So, while she maintained her identity by day as a clerk in a small used book- store, at night she broke into shops, banks, and the homes of wealthy suburbanites.
In the summer of 2002, however, her life changed dramatically. While ransacking an old warehouse in Milwaukee she found a secret passageway to a sub-basement. The sub-basement contained a hidden laboratory, complete with strange devices, several wall-hangings depicting the infamous VIPER logo, and a middle-aged man at a worktable, dead (heart attack, it looked like). On the worktable lay a white suit lined inside with microcircuitry. Lisa decided to get the heck out of there before anyone from either VIPER or the law found her, but she couldn’t resist taking the suit
in case it might be worth something to her usual fences.
Once she tried on the suit she realized she
was ready for the big leagues. The strange outfit generated multidimensional energies that let her “rotate” herself partially out of phase with the three-dimensional universe. While wearing it, she could walk through walls! It also included state-of- the-art hologram technology that let her project illusions or become invisible.
After finding the suit, Lisa took her thievery
to a whole new level. Calling herself Signal Ghost, she stepped up to the big leagues of superpowered crime. She recruited a “gang” (mostly old high school friends) and began specializing in “impos- sible” crimes. Her main targets were the high-tech corporations and laboratories of Millennium City; she’d get past their security, take whatever looked valuable, and sell the loot to a fence specializing in technology. Her crimes became more and more brazen, and eventually the city’s superheroes took note.
That didn’t bother her... but the fact that VIPER had found out that Dr. Razukov was dead and
his suit was missing did. Soon Signal Ghost was spending nearly as much time avoiding VIPER (and sometimes ARGENT) as she was planning and committing crimes. Eager for a way to turn the tables, she joined the superhero Nighthawk’s new team Project Mongoose in 2006. She worked closely with Mongoose for a couple years, striking back at VIPER as much as she could, but even- tually it became boring. Although she remains loosely affiliated with the team and helps it out whenever she can, these days she’s mostly back to her old larcenous tricks.
Personality/Motivation: Signal Ghost is in “the Game,” as she calls it, for the thrill of it. She delights in the adrenaline rush of sneaking quietly through a lab at night, avoiding guards and getting
away clean with some expensive prototype. She has little interest in violence — she doesn’t want to hurt anyone and only preys on “money-grubbing corporations.” She keeps most of the proceeds of her crimes for herself and her friends, though she donates large amounts of money to animal shelters and similar charities.
Quote: None. Signal Ghost doesn’t leave cryptic clues or banter with people who try to catch her.
Powers/Tactics: Except for her “Ghost Touch”
— the ability to pass her phased hand through a target and cause him excruciating but not lethal pain — and her hologram generator, Signal Ghost has no offensive abilities. Her ability to “expand and rotate” through higher dimensions allows
her to pass through three-dimensional barriers, and her suit’s assorted stealth abilities help her avoid detection once she gets inside. If confronted directly by a superhero or some other clearly supe- rior force, she cuts and runs.
Campaign Use: You can use Signal Ghost as
a “mystery villain” who commits a series of robberies that baffle authorities and finally involve the heroes directly (perhaps she even has the guts to rob their headquarters directly). The challenge is catching her, not beating her in combat.
If you want to toughen up Signal Ghost so she can fight the PCs if necessary, boost her Charac- teristics, increase her Armor to 15/15, and convert her “Ghost Touch” into a Multipower of attacks she can use while Desolidified. If the PCs don’t have the ability to come to grips with her, get rid of the Ghost Touch and put an Activation Roll on her Desolidification.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: As discussed above, Signal Ghost has offended VIPER and frequently has to deal with its attacks and attempts to “steal” her suit. ARGENT also wants to obtain her suit (and get revenge for her burglaries of various ARGENT-associated companies).
Signal Ghost considers other hackers and high-tech thieves her rivals to some extent. She and Cybermind were developing a pretty heavy competition until he got his mind fried fighting Defender; if she found a way to bring him out of his coma she’d probably do it as a way of paying respect to an “old foe.” She and Utility have also “competed” a bit, though he thinks her Phase Suit is too much like superpowered “cheating.”
Appearance: Lisa Sutherland is an attractive if tomboyish young woman, 5’5” tall and weighing 125 pounds, with sandy blonde hair and blue- green eyes. The Phase Suit she wears as Signal Ghost is a featureless white bodysuit — all of
the microcircuitry that makes it work is on the inside. However, the outside components include the Holoprojector Matrix (a rigid belt made of large metal loops with a hunk of gadgetry at
the buckle), the Jet Pack (slung low on her back and reinforced at the shoulder and thigh), and a helmet that incorporates radio and microsensor circuitry and large goggles.

SIGNAL GHOST FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Signal Ghost if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Signal Ghost is a high-tech thief who wears a suit that allows her to “phase” through walls.
K/R: Signal Ghost prefers not to fight — she’ll run away from violence if she can — but if neces- sary she can hurt people who attack her by “phasing” her hand through them to cause intense pain, or distract them with holograms generated by her suit.
-1: Signal Ghost can fly thanks to the jetpack she wears.
-10: Her Secret Identity is Lisa Sutherland.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
16 Holoprojector Matrix: Sight Group Images, -3 to PER
Rolls 3
Area Of Effect (8m Radius; +1⁄2); IIF (-1⁄4), Set Effect (preloaded Images only; -1⁄2)
18 Phase Suit Padding: Resistant Protection (8 PD/10 ED) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
27 Phase Suit Modulation: Desolidification (affected by multidimensional energies or magic) 4 OIF (-1⁄2)
27 Phase Suit Ghost Mode: Invisibility to Sight, Hearing,
and Radio Groups, No Fringe 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); IIF (-1⁄4), Only Versus Mechanical Perception (-1)
23 Phase Suit Jetpack: Flight 30m, x4 Noncombat 3 OIF (-1⁄2)
5 Suit Communications System: HRRP (Radio Group) 1 OIF (-1⁄2), Affected As Sight And Hearing Groups As
Well As Radio Group (-1⁄2), Costs Endurance (-1⁄2)
7 Mass Spectrovisor: Fully Penetrative for Sight Group (blocked by force-fields) 1 OIF (-1⁄2), Costs Endurance (-1⁄2)
Perks
2 Contact: High-tech fence 11-
Skills
6 +3 OCV with Drain
3 Acrobatics 13-
3 Breakfall 13-
5 Climbing 14-
3 Computer Programming 13- 3 Concealment 13-
3 Electronics 13-
4 KS: Millennium City Corporations 14-
1 Language: German (basic conversation; English is Native) 9 Lockpicking 16-
3 Persuasion 11-
9 Security Systems 16-
11 Stealth 17-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 281
Total Cost: 367
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: VIPER (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture/Kill) 20 Hunted: MCPD (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Limited
Geographical Area, Imprison)
20 Psychological Complication: Code Versus Killing
(Common, Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Thrillseeker (Common,
Strong)
5 Rivalry: Professional (with other hackers and high-tech
thieves)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Lisa Sutherland)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0
8 STR -2 11-
Lift 75 kg; 11⁄2d6 [1]
PER Roll 13-
PRE Attack: 11⁄2d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 12 PD (8 rPD)
Total: 14 ED (10 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 86
12m 30m
18 DEX 14 CON 18 INT 10 EGO 9 PRE
16 13- 4 12- 8 13- 0 11-
-1 11-
5 OCV 10 5 DCV 10 3 OMCV 0 3 DMCV 0 5 SPD 30
4 PD
4 ED
6 REC 2 30END 2 10 BODY 0
26 STUN
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
END
0
2 2
3 Flight:
33 Power Cell Array: Endurance Reserve (120 END, 30 REC)
OIF (-1⁄2)
60 Phase Disruption (“Ghost Touch”): Drain STUN 4d6 24
Affects Physical World (+2); OIF (-1⁄2), Increased Endurance Cost (x2 END; -1⁄2)

