Background/History: Kathryn Snowdon’s mother was a scientist — not a renowned one, a respected one, or even an entirely sane one, but a scientist nevertheless. Throughout Kathryn’s childhood Mother worked on one Big Project after another, always claiming that this one was going to be
the breakthrough that would make her rich and famous.
When Kathryn was 17, the Big Project was a weather-control ray that would, Mother claimed, allow a government to make the local weather be whatever it wanted without disturbing the weather patterns of nearby regions. Unfortunately Mother got so wrapped up in her work that she forgot to lock the laboratory door the way she usually did when she was involved in a potentially dangerous experiment. Kathryn walked in during a calibra- tion test of the “cause snow” setting, the safety overrides failed to work, Kathryn got zapped by the ray, and the machine exploded.
Kathryn woke up a few minutes later. Her eyes weren’t working right — everything was sort of grey and indistinct, but it was as if she could see all around herself at once. Mother was dead, but somehow she didn’t really care that much. She was more concerned that she’d somehow get blamed for what happened and be locked up for murder. Gathering up her most precious belongings and all the money she could lay her hands on, she fled into the night.
It wasn’t until the next day that she began to figure out what was going on. It wasn’t that her eyes weren’t working right — they weren’t working at all. Somehow the explosion had robbed her of her eyesight will giving her some sort of “radar sense” that was even better than eyesight in some ways (though she couldn’t perceive colors or truly fine details).
The second day after the accident brought even greater surprises. She woke up that morning to find her motel room chilled to below freezing, with chunks of ice built up along the walls and floor. A little experimentation showed her that Mother’s weather-control ray had given her
the power to control ice and cold. Now this is something I can make some real money with, she thought to herself... and a few days later the super- villainess Snowblind made her first appearance.
Personality/Motivation: Snowblind doesn’t realize that the accident that gave her her powers also affected her mind. She used to be a normal person who might even have become a superhero if she’d gotten superpowers. But thanks to the explosion’s impact on her brain, now she’s self-centered, greedy, and cold-hearted. She intends to use her powers to benefit herself and no one else.
Quote: “Pretty cool, huh? Get it?”
Powers/Tactics: Snowblind has the power to create ice and cold. Her powers range from blasts of ice, to chilling someone from the inside out
so quickly they become stunned, to trapping her opponents in solid blocks of ice, to covering some- one’s eyes with a coating of ice to create temporary blindness. She can also protect herself with ice armor or walls, and move quickly using ice slides (she can create an ice slide beneath her when falling or to get down from the top of a building, hence the Usable As Flight (Gliding) feature).
Snowblind has only been in a few pitched battles (she’s mostly just a superpowered smash- and-grab thief), so she has no real sense of tactics. If confronted, she’ll fight back at first, but quickly decides to run if hurt, or if the situation doesn’t seem to hold any hope of gain.
Snowblind’s powers depend on having a reasonable amount of moisture in the atmosphere, so they work at lesser effect (typically 75-50% of normal Active Points) in deserts and similar areas, and may not work at all in outer space or other places with no water. However, having lived near Lake Erie all her life, she doesn’t know this; since it almost never affects her, it’s not reflected with a Limitation on her powers.
Campaign Use: Snowblind started her career as
a relatively low-powered supervillainess, but has become stronger and learned a few things along the way. Although she prefers to commit her own crimes, she’s not nearly powerful enough to fight an entire team of PCs, so you should team her up with other villains if necessary. She’d make a good member of (or ally for) GRAB, for example.
Although the PCs may not realize it at first, Snowblind is definitely “salvageable.” Prior to
her accident she was a decent enough person. If psionic surgery or some other method were found to correct the changes to her personality wrought by the weather-control machine accident, she might decide to become a hero... or at the very least, stop committing crimes and use her powers to earn money legitimately.
SNOWBLIND FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Snowblind if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Snowblind is a supervillainess with the power to manipulate ice and cold. She can fire ice blasts, trap her enemies in blocks of ice, or coat the ground with ice so that her foes have difficulty standing up.
-1: Snowblind is, in fact, physically blind; she “sees” all around herself with a radar-like sense of some sort.
-4: Snowblind is pyrophobic — she fears fire.
-6: Fire/Heat attacks are particularly effective against Snowblind, and also cause serious damage to her ice blocks and walls.
-10: Her Secret Identity is Kathryn Snowdon.

Val Char Cost
10 STR 0
18 DEX 16 13- 18 CON 8 13-
13 INT 3 12 EGO 2 15 PRE 5
5 OCV 10 5 DCV 10
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
5 SPD 30
12- 11- 12-
5 PD
6 ED
8 REC 35END 10 BODY 30 STUN
Movement:
3 4 4 3 0 5
rPD) rED)
Roll Notes
11-
Lift 100 kg; 2d6
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 3d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, Total: 23 PD (18
HTH damage [1]
10, 12
Running: 42m
Total: 18 PD (12
Total Characteristics Cost: 106
Cost Powers END
60 Ice Powers: Multipower, 60-point reserve
6f 1) Ice Blast I: Blast 12d6
6f 2) Ice Blast II: Blast 8d6 6
Invisible to Sight Group (+1⁄2)
6f 3) Ice Blast III: Blast 8d6 6
Area Of Effect (1m Radius Accurate; +1⁄2)
6f 4) Chilled To The Bone: Blast 6d6 6
NND (defense is Life Support [Safe Environment: Intense Cold]; +1)
3f 5) Ice Bonds: Entangle 6d6, 6 PD/6 ED 6 Vulnerable (Fire/Heat; -1)
3f 6) Ice Sheet: Change Environment (create ice sheet),
-4 to DEX Rolls to move on 3
Area Of Effect (Surface 64m radius; +11⁄2), Personal Immunity (+1⁄4); Can Only Be Applied To Horizontal Surfaces (e.g., the ground and floors; -0)
3f 7) Here’s Ice In Your Eye: Sight Group Flash 12d6 6
Victim Can Cancel Effect By Taking One Full Phase (-1⁄2), Does Not Work Against Desolidified Characters (-1⁄4)
45 Ice Armor: Resistant Protection (18 PD/12 ED) 0 44 Ice Wall: Barrier 12 PD/8 ED, 10 BODY (up to
10m long, 3m high, and 1m thick) 5
Vulnerable (Fire/Heat attacks have 2x effect for purposes of damaging Barrier; -1⁄4)
30 Ice Slide: Running +30m (42m total) 4
Usable As Flight (Gliding) (see text; +1⁄4); Physical Manifestation (-1⁄4), Side Effects (leaves big chunks of ice around the environment; -0)
2 Doesn’t Feel The Cold: Life Support (Safe Environ-
ment: Intense Cold) 0 -35 Blind: Lacks Sight Group Senses 0
27 Radar Sense: Radar (Radio Group), Discriminatory, Increased Arc Of Perception (360 Degrees), Tele- scopic (+4 versus Range Modifier) 0
Skills
10 +2 with Ice Powers Multipower 2 CK: Millennium City 11-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Streetwise 12-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 224 Total Cost: 330
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: the Champions (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Capture)
15 Psychological Complication: Pyrophobia (Fear Of Fire)
(Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Cold-Heartedly Greedy
(Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Kathryn Snowdon)
(Frequently, Major)
20 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Fire/Heat Attacks (Common) 20 Vulnerability: 2 x BODY from Fire/Heat Attacks (Common) Total Complications Points: 75
Experience Points: 0


Appearance: Snowblind is a slender, small-framed late-twenty- something woman with long, straight blonde hair and blue eyes. She wears a blue costume with white fur trim (even though she doesn’t feel the effects of extreme cold).

