Background/History: In the long and storied history of the Tiger Squad (see CV2), there have been losses in battle, triumphs both pedestrian and dramatic, quarrels, weddings, and trips into outer space... but remarkably few defections from the ranks. The most prominent of the superhu- mans who’ve turned their backs on the Squad is the mystic martial artist known as Spirit Fist.
Spirit Fist (Jīngshēn Quan), or Chiang Hou to give his real name, was abandoned on the door- step of an ancient Chinese monastery as a baby. The monks took him in and raised him, and in time taught him the secrets of their Eight Dragon Spirit Fist Kung Fu (gan ch’uan wan kyun). At the traditional ceremony to mark the completion of his training and his total mastery of the style, the bronze bell rung over his head cracked. This was a sign, long predicted by prophecy, that Chiang was to inherit the deepest secret lore of the order and become a great hero.
Without a word the monks led him down into the deepest cellars of the monastery... and then deeper, through secret doors Chiang had never even suspected. In a tiny crypt far below the monastery he found a bronze chest, its immense age apparent despite the utter lack of verdigris on its surface. He opened it, and inside he found a scroll. When he read the scroll he was imbued with the power of the Spirit Fist, making him a matchless warrior.
Armed with his skills, his new powers, and
the good wishes of the monks, Chiang set out to make his way in the world and become a hero.
The Chinese government soon learned of him
and inducted him into the Tiger Squad. Chiang was glad enough to join at first, since he realized being part of the team would allow him to fight greater menaces and save more people. But in time he became deeply disillusioned and dissatisfied. The China he saw around him was not China as it should be; the Chinese people were not the pros- perous and happy population they deserved to be. The government was oppressive, rigid, and cruel.
The more he thought about it, the less Spirit Fist could stomach working for the Communist Chinese government. Eventually he decided it
was wrong to support the system by working
for the Tiger Squad. The next day he addressed
a large pro-democracy rally, making numerous inflammatory statements about the government and its oppressive ways. The day after that he fled China before the authorities could send his former comrades in the Squad to capture or kill him. He traveled to the US, where he entered secretly to keep the Chinese from learning his exact where- abouts. He continues to work for the cause of Chinese democracy from afar, avoiding Chinese assassins and US immigration officials as best he can. Sometimes he even fights crime.
Appearance: Spirit Fist is a Chinese man 5’9” tall with an athletic, muscular build that shows almost no trace of fat on his whipcord body. His costume is dark blue on the chest, shoulders, upper arms, trunks, and martial
arts slipper-like boots, and a lighter, almost electric, blue on the rest of his arms, his gloves, and his legs. Across
his chest there curls
a linework image of a Chinese dragon done in the same electric blue. He conceals his identity with a half-face mask tied in the back with electric blue high- lighting around the eyes in a sort of draconic pattern. When he uses his Power Of The Spirit Fist or Spirit Fist Shield powers an energy aura of a Chinese dragon matching the one on his chest sometimes surrounds him; when he uses his Spirit Fist Strike power the dragon seems to coil around his arm.
SPIRIT FIST FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Spirit Fist if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Spirit Fist is a master, perhaps the last living master, of the ancient lost fighting art of Eight Dragon Spirit Fist Kung Fu. He used to be a hero and member of the Tiger Squad of China, but defected from the group so he could support the pro-democracy movement in China. He’s wanted by the Chinese Communist government.
K/R: In addition to his hand-to-hand combat abili- ties, Spirit Fist has been granted the mystical abili- ties that are part of Eight Dragon Spirit Fist Kung Fu, such as harnessing his ch’i to increase his physical prowess or protect himself from attacks.
-1: His real name is Chiang Hou.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
8 Spirit Fist Strike: Armor Piercing (+1⁄4) for up to
Punch 14d6 6 Increased Endurance Cost (x3 END; -1)
45 Spirit Fist Shield: Resistant Protection (10 PD/10 ED/
5 Mental Defense/5 Power Defense) 3 Hardened (+1⁄4); Costs Half Endurance (-1⁄4)
6 Fast Runner: Running +6m (18m total) 1 13 Strong Leaper: Leaping +26m (30m forward,
16m upward) 1
Skills
48 +6 HTH
3 Acrobatics 14- 3 Breakfall 14-
3 Climbing 14-
3 Contortionist 14- 3 AK: China 12-
2 CK: Beijing 11-
1 CK: San Francisco 8-
1 KS: Chinese Arcane And Occult Lore 8-
2 KS: Chinese Demons And Monsters 11-
1 KS: Communist Chinese Government 8-
2 KS: The Tiger Squad 11-
2 Language: English (fluent conversation; Mandarin Chinese
20 STR 10 13- 27 DEX 34 14- 23 CON 13 14-
13 INT 3 12-
14 EGO 4 12-
20 PRE 10 13-
11 OCV 40 11 DCV 40 3 OMCV 0 5 DMCV 6
Lift 400 kg; 4d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 Total: 25 PD (10 rPD)
Total: 25 ED (10 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 253
18m 30m
6 SPD 15 PD
40
13
15 ED 10REC 6 45END 5 16 BODY 6 40 STUN 10
Movement: Running: Leaping:
Cost Powers
13
Martial Arts: Eight Dragon Spirit Fist Kung Fu Maneuver OCV DCV Notes
is Native) 3 Oratory 13-
4 Block +2 4 Disarm -1 4 Dodge +0 4 Dragon Claw +0
4 Escape +0 3 Joint Lock/Grab -1 5 Kick -2 4 Knife Hand -2
3 Legsweep +2
4 Punch +0
4 Sand Palm +0
3 Throw +0
4 Tien-hsueh Strike -1
16 +4 Damage Classes (already
36 Power Of The Spirit Fist: Aid Characteristics 6d6
Variable Effect (any one physical Characteristic at a time (+1⁄2), Delayed Return Rate (points fade at the rate of 5 per Minute; +1); Aid Self Only (-1), Lockout (Aiding one Characteristic causes the Aid effect existing on any other Characteristic to fade instantly; -1⁄2)
9
25 Hunted: Communist Chinese Government (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture/Kill)
25 Hunted: US Immigration Officials (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Code Versus Killing (Common, Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Ardent Campaigner For Chinese Democracy (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Chiang Hou) (Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 125


8d6 +v/10, Target Falls 400 Matching Complications (75) 4d6 NND (1)
-1 +2 +0 +1 +1
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 272 Total Cost: 525
added in)
5 Distinctive Features: Mystic Aura (Not Concealable; Noticed And Recognizeable; Reaction; Detectable Only By Unusual Senses)
END
3 Sleight Of Hand 14- 3 Stealth 14-
3 Streetwise 13-
3 Tactics 12-
3 Teamwork 14-
6 WF: Common Melee Weapons, Common Missile Weapons,
Common Martial Arts Weapons

Personality/Motivation: Spirit Fist isn’t truly
a villain at all — in fact, he’s a hero, but a hero who’s wanted by two major governments (though in truth the United States isn’t trying as hard to find him as it could, and would strongly consider granting a request for asylum if and when it captures him). He’s passionately devoted to the cause of overthrowing the Communist Chinese government (not necessarily violently) and making China the world’s largest democracy. He’ll do whatever he feels he has to, even commit terrorist acts against China, to achieve this goal.
Quote: “How can we call ourselves heroes when
a sixth of the world’s population is crushed beneath the cruel and ruthless heel of a tyrannical government?”
Powers/Tactics: Spirit Fist is a master, perhaps the last living master, of the ancient lost fighting art of Eight Dragon Spirit Fist Kung Fu. His skills alone make him an almost matchless HTH fighter, but he adds to them the mystic powers of the Spirit Fist. By invoking the Spirit Fist he can surround himself with a protective field of energy, wrap
his fist in energy so that his punches strike with special power, or call upon the Spirit Fist to fill him with its energy. The latter ability can make him stronger, faster, or tougher, as he chooses, but can only do one of these things at a time.
Campaign Use: Spirit Fist is a classic example of the “villain who’s not really a villain.” His personal beliefs have forced him into a situation where he has two governments looking for him and has to do things that he doesn’t find particularly pleasant (i.e., plan attacks on Chinese Communist govern- ment facilities), but he couldn’t live with himself if he didn’t strive to free China from oppression. When he encounters the PCs he’ll do his best to avoid a confrontation, or at the very least will try not to hurt them too badly.
To make Spirit Fist tougher, change his Aid
so it can affect either two or four Characteristics simultaneously. You can also increase his SPD to 7. To weaken him, reduce the Aid to 3d6.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: The Tiger Squad is Spirit Fist’s implacable foe. There are more than a few members of the Squad who agree with him, and perhaps if there’s a confrontation he could sway some of them to his side and split the team in two, but most of them intend to follow orders and bring him in.

