Background/History: Thalassa is the second child of Queen Mara, better known to the surface world as Sea Hawk, and Prince Andros, Mara’s second husband. From an early age, Thalassa understood that her elder brother Marus would inherit the throne, and she resented him for it since she’s
so clearly his superior in intelligence and skill. Insatiably curious, she turned to magic as a means of getting the attention and respect she felt she deserved. Late one night, she found a secret room in the vast Crystal Palace, and discovered a trove of books that had belonged to the notorious traitor Nereus, who had helped Dargon overthrow her grandfather.
She studied these spells for weeks in secret, eventually casting powerful body-manipulation spells that gave her the powers of other sea crea- tures like electric eels and octopi. In the mean- time, Prince Andros had died in an underwater landslide, and Mara, in her grief, had turned
her attentions to obsessively preparing Marus for his eventual inheritance. Therefore, teaching Thalassa had fallen to the family’s elderly advisor and librarian, Ikthos. When Ikthos discovered Thalassa’s secret magical practices, he was horri- fied and tried to inform the Queen. In her anger and panic, Thalassa killed him. When she real- ized what she’d done, her fragile hold on sanity snapped. She fled the castle, blaming Marus for what had happened and promising revenge.
Since that time, she’s battled against her mother and brother, as well as their friends and allies.
Her one-woman war has grown to encompass
the surface world that Mara spent so much time in. During one of her battles against the Sentinels she was struck on the head and temporarily lost her memory. Wandering the coast of Georgia, she encountered the mutant hero Amphibian, and the two fell in love. Unfortunately, another blow to the head restored her memories and personality, and she reverted to villainy while adding Amphibian to the list of people who’d wronged her, in this case by taking advantage of her “weakness.” Amphibian himself wants nothing more than to restore the personality he knew and loved.
Personality/Motivation: Stingray’s primary goal
is to take the throne of Atlantis from her mother and brother. The very thought of ruling Atlantis obsesses and enthralls her. To that end, she will participate in any number of schemes to increase her personal power or to work with others in exchange for assistance in destroying her family. But at the same time, for all her hatred of her brother, she still loves him, making her extremely conflicted — almost to the point of experiencing multiple personalities. A team of superheroes may be able to use her affection for Marus to its advan- tage when Stingray has the upper hand in battle.

Stingray — a name given to her by surface journalists based on her bioelectric powers — is clever and cruel, but also dangerously unstable. Appeals to her pride or vanity are fairly likely to work, but even an imagined slight can send her into a towering rage.
Quote: “All my life you’ve stood between me and what’s rightfully mine. No longer!!”
Powers/Tactics: Stingray is a typical Atlan- tean, with a humanoid body designed for survival in the depths of the ocean and swift swimming. Additionally, she’s augmented her physiology with the forbidden magics of the traitor Nereus, imbuing herself with the ability to deliver bioelectric blasts, absorb electricity to power further blasts, withstand bright lights, and project blinding clouds of octopus ink.
In combat, Stingray tends to rely on direct, straightforward attacks, using her strength (and her trident, if she happens to have it with her) or her bioelectric blasts. She’ll only turn to magic or her other powers if sheer force doesn’t seem to work. Outside of combat, however, she’ll use her sneaky magics with great effectiveness to gather information.
Campaign Use: Stingray is, obviously, of most use in scenarios that involve or focus on Atlantis to some degree. They don’t neces- sarily have to take place underwater — she might come to the surface world looking for allies, equipment, or magical artifact to help her in her quest — but she’s so devoted to gaining the Atlantean throne for herself that she’s not likely to become mixed up in any other events. She doesn’t work as a merce- nary villain at all.
If Stingray is too powerful for your campaign, reduce her Characteristics (espe- cially STR, DEX, and SPD) until she’s a better fit. You could also remove or decrease the size of her VPP, but don’t get rid of her other abilities if you can avoid it. To make her more powerful, increase her VPP, or provide her with additional innate abilities.
Appearance: Like most Atlanteans, Thalassa is tall and thin (5’20m, 130 pounds). Her skin is light green, and her hair a darker green (and kept short). There are fish-like fins along her head, back, arms, and lower legs. Her fingers and toes are webbed. Her usual garb, which she has enchanted to provide her greater protection, is a leatherish bikini-like costume (with a vest-like top) and matching thigh-high boots. At times
she carries a large, ornate war trident, and around her neck she sometimes wears a red chain of pure oricalchum.

Val Char Cost Roll
Notes
Lift 25 tons; 10d6 HTH damage [5]
50 STR 23 DEX 25 CON 23 INT 18 EGO 18 PRE
40 19- 26 14- 15 14- 13 14-
8 13- 8 13-
PER Roll 14-
PRE Attack: 31⁄2d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 20 PD (6 rPD)
Total: 16 ED (6 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 278
8 OCV 25 8 DCV 25 6 OMCV 9 6 DMCV 9
5 SPD 20 PD
30
18
16 ED
15 REC 11 50END 6 15 BODY 5 52 STUN 16
Movement: Running: Swimming:
Flight:
Cost Powers
12m 24m 30m
sTINGRaY
10 Nictitating Membrane: Sight Group Flash Defense (10 points) 0
8 Atlantean Body: Life Support (Expanded Breathing: Breathe Underwater; Safe Environments: Intense Cold, High Pressure) 0
15 Atlantean Travel: Swimming +20m (24m total),
x4 Noncombat 1 30 Flight: Flight 30m 3 5 Atlantean Eyes: Nightvision 0 15 Atlantean Senses: Active Sonar (Hearing Group) 0
Talents
3 Environmental Movement: Aquatic Movement (no penal- ties while in water)
Skills
20 +2 with All Combat
2 Animal Handler (Aquatic Creatures) 13-
5 Defense Maneuver II
2 High Society 13-; Atlantean Society Only (-1⁄2)
3 Interrogation 13-
3 AK: Atlantis 14-
3 AK: Oceans Of The World 14-
1 AK: Lemuria 8-
5 KS: Arcane And Occult Lore 16-
2 Language: English (fluent conversation; Atlantean is
Native)
1 Language: Lemurian (basic conversation) 3 Mimicry 14-
2 Navigation (Marine) 14-
3 Oratory 13-
3 Shadowing 14-
3 Stealth 14-
1 WF: Trident
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 370
Total Cost: 648
400 Matching Complications (75)
0 Dependence: must submerge in water at least once every 6 hours or suffer Weakness (Very Common)
20 Enraged: when insulted or treated with discourtesy by social inferiors (Common), go 11-, recover 11-
20 Hunted: Prince Marus (Frequently, As Pow, NCI, Limited Geographical Area, Mildly Punish)
15 Hunted: Amphibian (Infrequently, As Pow, Mildly Punish) 25 Psychological Complication: Obsessed With Gaining The
Atlantean Throne (Very Common, Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Loves And Hates Her
Brother Marus (Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Never Forgets Or Forgives
A Slight (Common, Strong)
10 Social Complication: Public Identity (Thalassa, Princess
of Atlantis) (Frequently, Major; not limiting in the
surface world)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 248
14
37 Minor Atlantean Spells: Variable Power Pool,
30 Pool + 30 Control Cost var VPP Can Only Be Changed Between Adventures
(-1⁄2), Slightly Limited Class Of Powers (magic; -1⁄4), Gestures (-1⁄4)
75 Bioelectric Blasts: Multipower, 75-point reserve
7f 1) Bioelectric Charge I: Blast 12d6 3
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
7f 2) Bioelectric Charge II: Blast 10d6 7
Area Of Effect (16m Cone; +1⁄2)
3f 3) Intense Bioelectric Charge: RKA 3d6 8
Increased Endurance Cost (x2 END; -1⁄2)
27 Bioelectric Manipulation: Absorption 40 BODY
(energy, to Bioelectric Charge I) 0 Limited Phenomena (electricity; -1⁄2)
20 Inky Cloud: Darkness to Sight Group 6m radius [8] Only Underwater (-1⁄2), 8 Charges lasting 1 Turn
each (removable by strong currents; -0)
24 Atlantean War Trident: HKA 2d6 (5d6+1 with STR) 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1) plus: Reach +2m
OAF (-1)
6 Atlantean Body: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 6 PD/6 ED 0 9 Enchanted Costume: Resistant Protection (6 PD/6 ED) 0
OIF (-1⁄2), Activation Roll 11- (-1⁄2)

SAMPLE ATLANTEAN SPELLS
Here are some examples of spells Stingray might use against the PCs:
Atlantean Comfort: Stingray uses this spell to bring surface dwellers down into her world safely.
Life Support (Expanded Breathing: Breathe Under- water; Safe Environments: Intense Cold, High Pressure), Usable Simultaneously (up to 8 people at once; +1)
(16 Active Points); Gestures (-1⁄4). Total cost: 13 points.
Dazzling Illumination: This spell creates a blinding light — an especially useful attack against Atlan- teans, who spend most of their lives in a relatively dim environment.
Sight Group Flash 6d6 (30 Active Points); Gestures (-1⁄4). Total cost: 24 points.
Harnessed Currents: With the very currents bent to her will, Stingray can swim more swiftly than ever. (She can also learn more powerful versions of this spell, to provide even more meters of Swim- ming, if desired.)
Swimming +16m (8 Active Points); Gestures (-1⁄4). Total cost: 6 points.
Scenes From Afar: Stingray can use water to view and hear events going on far from her.
Clairsentience (Sight and Hearing Groups) (30 Active Points); OIF (-1⁄2) (requires a small amount of water; -1⁄2), Gestures (-1⁄4). Total cost: 17 points.
Water Within Water: With this spell, Stingray can become as difficult to see as a single current in the ocean.
Invisibility to Sight Group, No Fringe (30 Active Points); Gestures (-1⁄4). Total cost: 24 points.

STINGRAY FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Stingray if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Stingray is an Atlantean supervillainess who has bioelectric powers as well as being super- humanly strong and tough. Her schemes usually unfold on, in, or under the water.
K/R: Her real name is Thalassa. She is sister to Prince Marus of Atlantis and was once Princess of that fabled undersea kingdom, but turned on her people out of anger and jealousy toward Marus.
-1: Stingray has also mastered some of the secrets of Atlantean magic and can cast spells of middling power.
-2: Besides being an extremely swift swimmer, Stingray can also fly.

