Background/History: James Hailey was only eight when his mutant powers began to manifest. His parents, devout Christians, thought that his ability to bring the rain was a gift from God — and there were others who agreed with them. Soon, a char- ismatic tent-revival preacher, Reverend Langtree, came to call. He told them James, as a good young Christian, had an obligation to carry his gift to people everywhere. After considerable thought and prayer, James’s parents let him go with the Reverend.
So began over a decade of traveling around
the country. Reverend Langtree was more scam artist than genuine preacher, and he and his crew taught James the tricks of the trade — how to milk a crowd, how to run a con game, how to cheat at cards. Most importantly, they taught him when and when not to use his powers, and gave him the chance to learn to use them. Though the public only saw him calling rain to break droughts, in truth he could do much, much more.
As he grew into a young adult, James became increasingly dissatisfied. He didn’t mind taking money from people — anyone who was that big
a sucker deserved what he got! (Or, rather, what he lost.) But he didn’t like being bossed around by Reverend Langtree and the others. He was the star of the show. He was the only true “miracle” the revival could create whenever it needed. He was the one who should be making all the money.
After his demand for a bigger cut of the proceeds degenerated into an hour-long screaming argument with Reverend Langtree, James decided he’d had enough. That night, he brought the rain... and the wind... and the lightning.... When he was done, there was nothing left of Langtree’s tents, trucks, or revival show except for scraps of lumber, metal, and canvas. James walked away from the wreckage and into the Superhuman World as Stormfront.
Personality/Motivation: Stormfront is self- centered and manipulative. Growing up among grifters and crooks taught him that (a) the only important things were money and power, (b) he had to take care for himself, and (c) no one can
be trusted. He’s always looking for an “angle” he can use to get ahead — and he remains so wary
of others’ attempts to exploit or trick him that his caution verges on cynical paranoia. As a result, he has a hard time getting along with people, which is one reason why, despite the flexibility and strength of his powers, he’s never worked for anyone on a long-term basis (much less joined a team).
Quote: “There’s a storm brewin’ — and it’s heading straight for you, hero.”

Powers/Tactics: Stormfront is a mutant with the ability to alter the weather on both a broad and intensely local scale. His control of large-scale weather patterns allows him to manipulate the weather over a radius of one to four kilometers, but this power comes with certain restrictions,
as summarized by the Affects Normal Weather and Extra Time Limitations. First, it only allows him to alter the normal weather in the vicinity, not to “create” pockets of weather at will. That means, for example, that if he’s indoors and he uses his Broad Weather Control to make it rain, it doesn’t start raining inside — it just rains outdoors, like any other rainstorm. Second, the greater the extent of the change he makes in the weather, the longer it takes to occur. A relatively minor change (altering the temperature by about 10-20 degrees Fahr- enheit, creating a light rain shower on a sunny day, changing cloudy weather to sunny) usually manifests in about 1 Turn to one minute. A severe change — like changing a bright summer day to
a blizzard — can take an hour, or more. (At the GM’s option, severe changes may also require a CON Roll, or cost double END.) Moreover, how long the change lasts after he stops paying END is inversely proportional to the severity of the change — a summertime blizzard melts away almost immediately, whereas clouds on a wintry day may last the entire day. Third, Stormfront’s changes
to the weather cause concommitant changes in nearby regions; if he makes it rain in Millennium City, that means he’s drawing in clouds from the surrounding area, “creating” sunnier and dryer weather there.
On a local scale, the changes Stormfront can create are much more intense and hazardous. Indoors or out, he can create small (up to 32m radius) changes to the ambient weather of what- ever degree he desires, instantly. With the merest thought, a dry night becomes a raging thun- derstorm, or winter’s cold turns into summer’s warmth. Depending on the type of weather he chooses to create, he can interfere with others’ vision or ability to walk and stand.
Stormfront can also create even more dangerous local weather effects if necessary. For example, he can blast his enemies with bolts of lightning, create a mini-blizzard intense enough to make someone pass out, or “summon” a tiny tornado. He has a particularly high degree of control over the wind; he can use it to fly, protect himself, or move things.
In combat, Stormfront usually prefers to fly, though he may not if he’s creating storms and wind. He starts by altering the local weather to suit the situation, then begins attacking with lightning bolts, his mini-blizzard, or his Telekinesis. If he discovers he’s ineffective or outmatched, he’ll usually flee.
When he first started his supervillain career, Stormfront wasn’t much on fighting; it wasn’t
the sort of thing he’d been taught. He preferred sneakiness and guile to raw exercises of his power. He’s gotten over that. Though he still appreciates the value of deceit and manipulation (particu- larly when he’s dealing with goodie-two-shoes
superheroes), he’s also learned how much fun it can be to cut loose with his powers and fight other superhumans toe-to-toe. He doesn’t particularly want to kill or seriously hurt anyone, but he won’t hesitate to use his most powerful attacks if he feels he has to.
Despite the fact that his powers give him the means to commit major crimes and steal vast sums of money, Stormfront still enjoys using his grifting skills. It’s hard to beat the excitement of picking someone’s pocket, cheating at cards, or pulling an elaborate scam... especially when he can just blast people who tumble to what he’s doing and take their money anyway.
Campaign Use: Stormfront makes a good merce- nary villain for a wide variety of master villains and villain teams. His Weather Powers, while not overwhelmingly powerful, offer a lot of flexibility that smarter, more experienced villains can find many uses for. His grifting skills also come in handy on many occasions.
If you want to make Stormfront more powerful, increase the strength of his weather powers by
2-4 DCs or 10-20 Active Points (possibly more), or even give him some additional powers (see the “Weather Powers” section of Champions Powers for ideas). To weaken him, remove his Localized Tornado and/or reduce his SPD to 4.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Stormfront’s never worked with any villains or villain teams for very long due to his wariness and paranoia, but he’s been a short-term partner to or employee of many. The villain he’s worked for the most often
is Holocaust, who considers him a powerful, reli- able hireling. The one he’s enjoyed working with the most is Zephyr; he’d like to pursue a closer relationship based upon their having powers in common, but she doesn’t seem all that interested.
Stormfront has spoken with Kinematik on several occasions. He supports the master villain’s pro-mutant cause, but just can’t bring himself enough to trust the man to join his team. If anything ever convinces him, it’s likely to be Fossil; their similar backgrounds give them something to talk about and bond over.
Appearance: James Hailey is a tall (6’1”), thin man with a slightly pale complexion, brown hair worn a little longer than most men’s, a short brown beard along his jawline and around his mouth, and piercing green eyes; women consider him handsome. As Stormfront, he wears a black cape, black domino-style mask, black flared boots, and black flared gloves. His bodystocking is a dark grey, the color of gathering stormclouds, with a gold lightning bolt arcing across his body from his left shoulder all the way down to his right boot.
Val Char Cost Roll Notes
36 Windriding: Flight 30m 0 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Unified Power (-1⁄4)
30 Wind Manipulation: Telekinesis (20 STR) 0 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Affects Whole
Object (-1⁄4), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
36 Shield Of The Winds: Resistant Protection
(15 PD/15 ED) 0 Unified Power (-1⁄4)
4 Self-Acclimating: Life Support (Safe Environments: Intense Cold, Intense Heat) 0
Skills
15 STR 5 12- 20 DEX 20 13- 20 CON 10 13- 10 INT 0 11- 12 EGO 2 11- 20 PRE 10 13-
7 OCV 20 7 DCV 20
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
5 SPD 30
8 PD 6 10 ED 8 10REC 6 50END 6 10 BODY 0 30 STUN 5
Movement: Running: Flight:
Cost Powers
Lift 200 kg; 3d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 11- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 23 PD (15 rPD)
Total: 25 ED (15 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 151
12m 30m
3 Acting 13-
3 Charm 13-
3 Conversation 13-
2 Gambling (Card Games) 11-
2 KS: Christian Revival Circuit 11- 1 KS: Christian Folk Theology 8- 3 Oratory 13-
3 Persuasion 13-
3 SS: Meteorology 12-
3 Sleight Of Hand 13-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Streetwise 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 337 Total Cost: 488
6 Broad Weather Control: Change Environment, -2 to Sight Group PER Rolls
Area Of Effect (4m Radius; +1⁄4), MegaScale (1m = 1 km; +1), Varying Effect (any type of weather; +1); Extra Time (minimum of 1 Turn for changes
to manifest, depending on severity, see text; -11⁄4), Only Affects Normal Weather (see text; -1⁄2), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
22 Local Weather Control I: Change Environment, -4 to Sight Group PER Rolls
Area Of Effect (16m Radius; +3⁄4), Varying Effect (any type of weather that could interfere with vision; +1⁄2); Unified Power (-1⁄4)
22 Local Weather Control II: Change Environment, -4 to DEX Rolls to move on
Area Of Effect (16m Radius; +3⁄4), Varying Effect (any type of weather that could make the ground slippery; +1⁄2); Unified Power (-1⁄4)
22 Local Weather Control III: Change Environment,
2
3
3
400
10 25
25 20
15
Matching Complications (75)
Distinctive Features: Mutant (Not Concealable; Always Noticed; Detectable Only By Unusual Senses)
Hunted: Institute For Human Advancement (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Kill)
Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) Psychological Complication: Looks Out Only For
Himself; Doesn’t Trust Anyone Else (Very Common,
Strong)
Social Complication: Public Identity (James Hailey)
(Frequently, Major)
END
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 488
STORMFRONT FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Stormfront if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Stormfront is a supervillain with weather powers. He can alter the weather in various ways over large areas, or can create “localized” weather phenomena like projected lightning bolts, mini-tornadoes, and mini-blizzards.
K/R: His real name is James Hailey. He spent some time in Stronghold during the 2000s but escaped during the 2009 breakout.
-6: Stormfront is a mutant.
+/-4 Temperature Levels 3
Area Of Effect (32m Radius; +1), Varying Effect (+1⁄4); Unified Power (-1⁄4)
32 Projected Lightning: RKA 21⁄2d6 4 Unified Power (-1⁄4)
23 Miniature Blizzard: Blast 3d6 4
NND (defense is Life Support [Safe Environment: Intense Cold], fire powers, or some other personal source of heat; +1), Area Of Effect (1m Radius; +1⁄4), Constant (+1⁄2); Limited Range (40m; -1⁄4), No Knock- back (-1⁄4), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
72 Localized Tornado: Blast 8d6 8
Area Of Effect (8m Radius; +1⁄2), Constant (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Random Knock- back (-0), Unified Power (-1⁄4)

