Background/History: Born and raised in Chicago, Steve Maxwell always had a strong competitive streak. Whether it was sports, grades, or picking up girls, he had to try to be the best — and he usually succeeded. To no one’s surprise, he ended up attending Millennium City University on a full ride based both on his skill as as football player and his grades.
Maxwell’s string of successes continued at MCU, but his enjoyment of college life was marred by one thing: another student, Rob Bleskind. Somehow they just rubbed each other completely the wrong way. Bleskind was every bit as competi- tive as Maxwell was, and every bit as good. Since they both were majoring in the sciences, they bumped into each other on campus all the time, and harsh insults were the least they usually exchanged. The campus cops broke up more than one fist-fight between them.
In Maxwell’s senior year, MCU got an unprec- edented opportunity — the chance to examine part of a strange meteorite that had hit Earth in Kentucky. One of the minerals in the meteorite was not found on Earth, and MCU was the first to have a chance to examine one of the chunks containing bits of this strange new rock, dubbed “kelvarite.”
To Maxwell’s delight, he was asked to partici- pate in the analysis due to his strong background in astronomy. His enjoyment of the moment was spoiled when the professors brought Bleskind in as well because of his skills as a geologist. It was all the two of them could do to be civil to each other when the professors were around.
And then the professors left the room for a minute to get some equipment. What happened next is a matter of debate. Both Maxwell and Bles- kind claim the other one began an unauthorized test. Or it may be that they got into a fight and knocked something over. Or maybe they didn’t do anything. But regardless of what they did or didn’t do, the meteor did something — it exploded!
Both of them were showered with tiny particles and fragments of kelvarite. Bleskind, being closer to the meteor when the disaster occurred, was bombarded with more kelvarite than Maxwell was.
Maxwell woke up in the hospital. He was amazed to find out that he didn’t feel any pain. In fact, he felt terrific! It didn’t take long for him to discover that the accident had somehow granted him prodigious strength. And when a nurse opened the door and surprised him, he discovered another one his powers — teleportation — purely by reflex. Fortunately, he got back into his room before the nurse noticed he was missing.
As he continued his studies, eventually earning a Ph.D in astronomy, Maxwell practiced with
his powers. He developed fine control over his teleportation powers and explored the extent
and uses of his enormous strength. Being fairly self-centered and quite greedy, he soon began committing burglaries — an easy enough thing for a super-strong teleporter to do.
Today, Maxwell lives a double life. Most of the time he’s one of the newest astronomy professors at MCU, teaching undergrads the ins and outs of stars, nebulae, and planetary formation. But when he feels like it, or when someone hires him to do a job, he hits the streets as Tachyon, stealing and committing mayhem as the mood takes him.
Personality/Motivation: Tachyon isn’t a complex person as supervillains go. He’s self-centered, greedy, and basically amoral, though he does a good job of covering these negative qualities and blending into normal society on a day-to-day basis. He still can’t stand it when anyone beats him at anything — or even comes close to beating him — and will do whatever it takes to prove he’s the better man. If a superhero defeats him, he’ll keep coming back, again and again, until he achieves victory.
Tachyon thinks of himself as a scientist first and foremost; he genuinely loves his work, can talk about it for hours, and has a strong streak of scientific curiousity. He loves to know what makes things work, why they happen the way they do.
If presented with a mystery or a puzzle, he often focuses on it intently, becoming more absorbed in it than he should be. A superhero who discovers this trait might be able to devise a clever trap for him.
Tachyon remains bitter rivals with Rob Bles- kind, who’s now better known as Thunderbolt. Each of them does his best to interfere with the other’s work, taunt him, and make him miserable. They have yet to put their superpowers to the test against each other, but they know it’s only a matter of time.
Quote: “Now you see me...” ::teleports behind opponent and punches him:: “...now you don’t.”
Powers/Tactics: Being bombarded with the mysterious alien mineral kelvarite (about which Earth science still knows very little) granted Tachyon an unusual and powerful suite of super- human abilities. First, it greatly augmented his strength and resilience, giving him the ability to toss vehicles around and punch through armor plating with ease. Second, it somehow interacted with his bioelectric field to grant him teleporta- tion powers. In addition to teleporting himself, he can teleport others (even against their will)
or teleport small objects into people (causing terrible wounds). For a less lethal attack, he can simply “blink teleport” a person in and out rapidly, causing such strain to the person’s system that the victim often passes out.
Tachyon has developed a number of tactics to take advantage of his abilities. For example, if he’s facing someone, he can use his Courier Telepor- tation to ’port behind them so that he’s looking at the target’s back, and then punch them for all he’s worth. He often combines his Aportation with a punch (Strike) as a Multiple Attack (his “Tele-Punch”).

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
Appearance: Tachyon is a tall, extremely muscular man who wears a blue and green costume when committing crimes. His boots and short gloves are blue. Blue runs up the inner half of his leg and up the center of his chest, spreading out over his shoulders and ending where the shoulders meet the upper arms in a point. Green runs up the outer half of his legs and his sides,
50 STR 40 19- 20 DEX 20 13- 25 CON 15 14- 13 INT 3 12- 10 EGO 0 11- 20 PRE 10 13-
7 OCV 20 7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0 3 DMCV 0
Lift 25 tons; 10d6 HTH damage [5]
5 SPD 24 PD
30
22
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 24 PD (24 rPD)
Total: 24 ED (24 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 237
and all the way down his arms. His short gloves are blue. He wears a blue domino mask and has short
black hair. When he teleports, a field of bluish energy, a bit
lighter in tone than his costume, surrounds
his body and then fades
away right after he disappears.
24 ED
15 REC 11 50END 6 13 BODY 3 50 STUN 15
Movement: Running: Leaping:
22
Teleportation:
Cost Powers
12m 20m 60m
24 Toughness: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 24 PD/24 ED
60 Teleportation Powers: Multipower, 60-point reserve 6f 1) Basic Teleportation: Teleportation 60m
6f 2) Courier Teleportation: Teleportation 40m
Position Shift, x8 mass
6f 3) Long-Range Teleportation: Teleportation 30m
MegaScale (1m = 1 km; +1)
6f 4) Focused Teleportation: Teleportation 40m
Armor Piercing (x2; +1⁄2)
6f 5) Aportation: Teleportation 22m
Usable As Attack (+11⁄4), Ranged (+1⁄2) 4f 6) Combat Aportation I: RKA 2d6
Penetrating (x2; +1); OIF (any small teleportable object; -1⁄2)
3f 7) Combat Aportation II: Blast 5d6
NND (defense is having Teleportation, gravitic, magnetic, or dimension-manipulation powers; +1); No Range (-1⁄2)
3f 8) Blink Teleport: +8 DCV Costs Endurance (-1⁄2)
2 Escape Routes: Two Fixed Locations for Teleportation (home; office)
8 Super-Strong Legs: Leaping +16m (20m forward, 10m upward)
Perks
2 Contact: prominent astrophysicist 11-
0
20 +2 with All Combat
6 6
6 6 6 6
5
4
0 1
END
Skills
3 Computer Programming 12- 3 Electronics 12-
3 CK: Millennium City 12-
2 CK: Chicago 11-
2 KS: Football 11-
2 PS: Instructor 11-
2 PS: Operate Telescope 11- 2 PS: Play Football 11-
5 SS: Astronomy 14-
3 Stealth 13-
1 Systems Operation 8-
1 Teamwork 8-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 163 Total Cost: 400
400 Matching Complications (75)
15 Psychological Complication: Must Prove That He’s The Best (Common, Strong)
5 Rivalry: Professional (with another astronomy professor; Rival Is Aware Of Rivalry)
5 Rivalry: Professional (with Thunderbolt II; Rival Is Aware Of Rivalry)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Prof. Steve Maxwell) (Frequently, Major)
15 Susceptibility: to kelvarite, 1d6 damage per Phase (Uncommon)
20 Vulnerability: 2 x Effect from Drains (Common) Total Complications Points: 75
Experience Points: 0

Although Tachyon doesn’t know it yet, his kelvarite-based powers come with kelvarite-based weaknesses as well. For one thing, exposure
to other kelvarite causes him pain (and could
even kill him if it were prolonged). Fortunately, kelvarite is pretty rare; the only known sources
on Earth right now come from a few meteorite fragments that the authorities keep under lock and key. Somehow the kelvarite in his body also makes him vulnerable to attacks that sap his abilities (i.e., Drains).
Campaign Use: Tachyon is a powerful opponent with an unusual set of powers the GM can use to keep the PCs on their toes. He’s difficult to keep imprisoned once captured, so he can always come back to get revenge.
To make Tachyon a little more powerful, boost his STR to 60, his Multipower reserve to 75, and his Multipower slots accordingly. You could also increase his SPD to 6. If you find he’s too powerful for your game, try reducing his STR to 40, his SPD to 4, and/or his Multipower to a 50-point reserve.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Tachyon usually prefers to commit crimes by himself, but he’s willing to team up with other villains if neces- sary or he sees greater profits in it. For example, he’s worked with Mechassassin a couple times.
Tachyon and Thunderbolt II have been bitter rivals since their college days. They remain adversarial today, though no one else in the Superhuman World knows why. Each of them knows the other’s Secret Identity but doesn’t reveal it to the world for fear of having his own secret exposed.
Tachyon wants to study other villains whose powers derive from kelvarite, such as Meteor (see CV1). He won’t be obvious about it, since that might tip people off that his powers come from exposure to the mineral, but he’d like to learn anything he can in the hopes of increasing or expanding his own powers.

TACHYON FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Tachyon if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Tachyon is a super-strong villain who also has teleportation powers. He can lift approxi- mately 25 metric tons.
K/R: One of Tachyon’s most dangerous powers is the ability to teleport small objects directly into a target’s body, causing hideous internal injuries.
-6: Exposure to kelvarite causes Tachyon intense pain; his powers may derive from contact with the strange alien mineral.
-10: His Secret Identity is Steve Maxwell; he’s an astronomy professor at Millennium City University and several other colleges.

