Val Char Cost
10 STR 20 DEX 20 CON 18 INT 21 EGO 25 PRE
Roll
0
20 13- 10 13-
15
Notes
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 19 PD (14 rPD)
Total: 21 ED (14 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 183
12m 40m
42 Ebon Void: Resistant Protection (14 PD/14 ED) 0 40 Wings Of The Zephirim: Flight 40m 4 40 Visions: Clairsentience (Sight and Hearing Groups),
4x Range (1,200m) 4 3 Magesense: Detect Magic 13- 0
Concentration (0 DCV; -1⁄2)
Perks
2 Contact: a member of the Circle Of The Scarlet Moon 11- 4 Contact: a Morbane of DEMON 11- (very useful Skills and
resources, has significant Contacts of his own)
4 Contact: Dark Seraph 8- (extremely useful powers and
resources)
Talents
6 Striking Appearance: +2/+2d6
Skills
16 +2 with Ranged Combat
3 High Society 14-
3 CK: Vibora Bay 13-
2 CK: Millennium City 11-
3 KS: Arcane And Occult Lore 13-
3 KS: Demonology 13-
3 KS: Necromancy 13-
3 KS: Witchcraft 13-
1 Language: Latin (basic conversation; English is Native) 3 Charm 14-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Streetwise 14-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 418
Total Cost: 601
7 OCV
7 DCV 20 7 OMCV 12 7 DMCV 12
5 SPD 5 PD
30
3
TALISMAN
7 ED
6 REC 2 70 END 10 10 BODY 0 30 STUN 5
Movement: Running: Flight:
Cost Powers
8
11 13-
20
5
11-
13- 14-
60 Mastery Of Darkness: Multipower, 60-point reserve 6f 1) Fields Of Shadow: Darkness to Sight Group
12m radius
6f 2) Moving Shadows: Darkness to Sight Group
8m radius
Mobile (+1⁄2)
1f 3) The Unavoidable Dark: Darkness to Sight Group
1m radius
Usable As Attack (+11⁄4) 6f 4) Shadow Bolt: Blast 8d6 Double Knockback (+1⁄2)
5f 5) Shadow Embrace: RKA 2d6 Constant (+1⁄2), Uncontrolled (+1⁄2)
6f 6) Shadow Helm: Sight Group Flash 12d6
62 Mastery Of Hellfire: Multipower, 62-point reserve
6f 1) Hellfire: Blast 12d6
6f 2) Hellfire Gate: Blast 8d6
Area Of Effect (18m Radius Explosion; +1⁄2) 6f 3) Agonizing Hellfire: Blast 9d6
Armor Piercing (+1⁄4)
6f 4) Writhing Hellfire: Blast 5d6
Constant (+1⁄2), Penetrating (+1⁄2), Uncontrolled (+1⁄2)
6 6
1 6 6 6
6 6
6 6
400
20
20 20
15
Matching Complications (75)
Hunted: Trismegistus Council (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
Hunted: DEMON (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Captue) Psychological Complication: Utterly Self-Centered;
Cares Only For Herself (Common, Total)
Social Complication: Secret Identity (Pamela Duquesne)
(Frequently, Major)
40 Foul Sorcery: Multipower, 40-point reserve
4f 1) Domination: Mind Control 8d6 4 4f 2) Befuddlement: Mental Illusions 8d6 4 4f 3) Spell Of Torment: Mental Blast 4d6 4 3f 4) Touch Of Terror: Drain PRE 4d6 4
No Range (-1⁄2)
END
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 201

Background/History: Pamela Duquesne is hot stuff, and she knows it. She’s also evil stuff, but she doesn’t really care about that. As far as she figures it, good and evil don’t really matter. What matters is getting what you want, and being the best.
She goes by the name Talisman now — it’s a lot cooler than Pamela — and she has a history both of getting what she wants and being the best. She was born into a witching family. Both Mommy and Daddy were dark witches in the Circle of the Scarlet Moon. So far, a perfect setting for a gal like Talisman. Except for one thing: her twin sister.
Where Talisman was selfish and self centered, Bethany was kind and generous. Where Talisman was outgoing and sexy, Bethany was shy and awkward. All of that goodie-two-shoes crap made her twin horribly annoying, but that wasn’t the problem. The problem was that Bethany was just as magically talented as she was! It was completely unfair. She shouldn’t have to share the limelight with a wimp like her sister.
Fortunately, little Bethany was too nice and wishy-washy to really take to their parents’ teach- ings. Talisman, on the other hand, soaked up every nasty spell and dark magic that she could.
On their eighteenth birthdays, both girls were to be formally inducted into the Circle of the Scarlet Moon, the powerful coven their parents belonged to. It didn’t surprise Talisman at all when Bethany freaked out and ran away from the ceremony. Good riddance! Eager for ever-greater power, Talisman stepped forward, swore the oath, and began to learn all the darkest and most powerful magics she could.
Eventually Talisman became dissatisfied
with the Circle. It was too caught up in its petty internal politics, too hidebound, too obsessed with pointless rituals and traditions that only inhibited her ability to learn magic. She left, seeking other teachers. In time she studied with many, including the feared sorcerer-priests of DEMON and the demonic Dark Seraph. Other times she seduced powerful mages into teaching her their secrets.
As long as she got more and more power, she didn’t care what she did. If she had to be nice to someone, she could fake it. If she had to sacrifice an innocent child to the Lords of Hell, she could do that, too.
But she’s done more with her life than study — she’s not the sort to stay in the library all the time! She wants bright lights, big cities, fast money, and the adoration of beautiful people. And she gets
all of that by using her powers to commit crimes. After all, being a supervillain is just another kind of power. With her mastery of hellfire and other magical abilities, she’s a match for most superhe- roes — including her weakling sister, who joined the Champions. Talisman eagerly looks forward to the day when she can finally destroy Witch- craft utterly. She almost succeeded once, but only managed to curse her. A rematch is only a matter of time.
Personality/Motivation: Cruel, sadistic, petty, manipulative, greedy, and supremely self-centered, Talisman is almost the complete opposite of her sister Witchcraft. Pamela is outgoing, bold, self- confident, openly sexy, and assertive, unlike the quiet, often introspective Bethany. Long exposure to and use of black magic has corrupted her soul, and though she hasn’t sold it yet, even that dire step down the path to damnation is likely only a matter of time.
Quote: “Enjoy the torments of Hell, little man.”
Powers/Tactics: Talisman’s powers derive from her study and practice of black magic. She has two specialties. The first is Darkness magics — the command and control of shadow for various purposes. Her Darkness-spells can black out an area, blind a foe, project shadowbolts, or eat a person to the bone with corruptive shadow power. Second, she’s studied the manipulation of arcane Hellfire, with which she blasts and burns her enemies. She’s also mastered sorcery and various general magics. Unlike Witchcraft, who sacri- ficed raw power for breadth of ability, Talisman has focused on learning spells more suited to her selfish desires and ignored the “minor magics” of “lesser witches.” But her powerful magics can tire her easily if she’s not careful (keep a close eye on her END usage).

Also unlike Witchcraft, Talisman has chosen the quick and easy routes to power, caring not for the harm they may inflict on the world, or ultimately on herself. Thus she possesses greater power (i.e., she’s built on more Character Points) than Witchcraft, though they’ve both been studying magic for roughly the same amount of time. Talisman’s Experience Points reflect this moreso than they do more experience (though in fact Talisman has had more opportunity to prac- tice using spells on people than Witchcraft has, since she doesn’t care about hurting or manipu- lating innocents for her own purposes).
Talisman often gestures and incants when casting her spells, but she doesn’t have to — she’s just used to doing so. She’s perfectly capable of using any of her powers even when bound and gagged.
The Trismegistus Council, an order of benevo- lent mystics with whom Witchcraft has some association, would like to capture and neutralize Talisman, whom they regard as a great threat
to the world (they won’t explain exactly why to Witchcraft). DEMON, with whom Talisman has worked in the past, would like to find a way to force her to add her power to its ranks, but so far she’s eluded the Inner Circle’s snares.
Campaign Use: Talisman makes a good general- purpose mystic villain for a variety of scenarios, but works best when some element of her background — usually Witchcraft, but possibly a Hunted or the like — is also part of the story. That way she seems less like a two-dimensional evil spellcaster and more like the intriguingly wicked person she actually is.
If Talisman is too weak for your campaign, give her a Variable Power Pool like Witchcraft’s, but make it larger and a little easier to use (once again, the easy path to power pays off... for now). If she’s too strong, reduce her Mastery Of Hellfire to a 40 or 50 point reserve, her EC to 30-point powers, and a few of her Characteristics (DEX and CON, perhaps) by a point or three.
As a Hunted, Talisman is vindictive and vicious. She never forgets a slight, or passes up any opportunity to make her quarry miserable — or dead. Instead of simply blasting her foe, she’ll try to find unusual curses, spells of torment, and other ways to harm him. She rarely Hunts on less than an 11-.

Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Talisman has worked with or for many other villains during her villainous career. She’s most likely to associate with other mystic villains, but doesn’t limit herself too them. For example, she’s worked with the Ulti- mates, though she may not do so again because she despises Slick.
Talisman studied with DEMON and Dark Seraph (among others), and maintains ties to both. She has occasionally worked for her parent’s organization, the Circle Of The Scarlet Moon, though she usually finds it distasteful to associate with them and considers most Circle members too weak. She and the Demonologist have a “profes- sionally cordial” relationship; they’ve met once
or twice for dinner to discuss mystic topics of interest, but have yet to work together.
Talisman has worked with the Black Paladin, and would be willing to do so again. In fact, rumors have occasionally swirled through the Mystic World that the two of them have had (or are having) an affair. This may explain Talisman’s catty relationship with Morgaine the Mystic, who’s also been romantically linked with the Black Paladin by superhuman gossip.
Talisman’s worked with Zorran the Artificer. She covets his Philosopher’s Stone and Arcane Furnace Staff, but not enough to risk his anger and power by trying to take them.
Talisman owes Tobias Vandaleur a favor or two for assistance he’s provided her in the past.
Appearance: Although she is Witchcraft’s twin sister, Talisman can easily be distinguished from her hated sibling. She typically wears thigh-length black high-heeled boots, a black leather miniskirt, a black leather top with red highlights and a high red-lined collar that’s strategically opened to show the black bra beneath, and long black gloves. She cuts her hair short and dyes it black. She conceals her identity with a minor glamour that makes those who see her face forget exactly what she looks like.

TALISMAN FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Talisman if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: Talisman is a powerful super-mage whose powers focus on (but aren’t limited to) the manipula- tion of shadow and of hellfire.
K/R: Talisman and the superheroine Witchcraft of the Champions are twin sisters.
-4: Talisman seems to get along with most other mystic villains, including Dark Seraph. Rumors occa- sionally claim she and the Black Paladin have had (or are having) an affair.
-10: His Secret Identity is Pamela Duquesne; she and Witchcraft (Bethany Duquesne) are the daughters
of Roger and Martika Duquesne, who are powerful members of the Circle Of The Scarlet Moon (see CV2).

