THE ENGINEER
Background/History: Grace Gallowglass was an engineering student from Killarney, Ireland, who came to Millennium City University to study elec- tronic engineering. A studious woman, quiet but ambitious, she hoped one day to be involved in “the engineering project of the new century.” One of the fields that she studied was robotics, and she was especially interested in superhero and super- villain robots... particularly Mechanon. It was only natural: he might be a homicidal monster, but he’s also the greatest achievement in the history of robotics.
She wanted to examine the Mechanon tech- nology up close and personal, and ironically, it turned out that one of Mechanon’s hidden bases was beneath the campus robotics workshop.
She snuck into it minutes after a battle between the Champions and Mechanon, but her excite- ment turned to horror when she was trapped by the machines and imprisoned in a net of steel tentacles and silicon probes. She’d activated the auto-repair systems, but there was no Mechanon for the system to repair.
  Repair the afflicted system.
Repair.
The systems started “repairing” Grace. In agony, the engineering student desperately reached for the controls, and accidentally trig- gered the biological interrogation sequence. This program tortured people for information, but to ensure the organics didn’t die before the informa- tion was obtained, it also regenerated any physical damage (something Mechanon viewed as a neces- sary evil).
Heal the organic. Heal.
Repair damaged system. Repair. Heal.
Repair.
Heal.
So Grace found herself being transformed into
a machine — and having her biological damage healed simultaneously. Six hours later, the authori- ties who found her unhooked what she’d become from the machine.


And what had Grace become? Part human, part machine? No, it was more complicated than that. Both the auto-repair and the bio-repair protocols were still working inside her — the system decided she needed to have both of them “installed” — as was a cybernetic link to the complex. The machine was alive inside Grace,
and it danced for her. The code was in her, too. She discovered Mechanon’s code was surprisingly compatible with other systems; almost immedi- ately, she figured out how to exert control over any machine.
Grace was hospitalized at a secret high-security facility in Maryland for people victimized by supervillain technology. The staff had experienced more than their fair share of experiments run amok, but Grace was in a completely different league. She easily escaped the facility, leaving behind a smoking pile of rubble.
Grace’s initial impulse was to track down Mechanon and offer herself to him as his consort. Mechanon, never the romantic type, responded by trying to kill her. Heartbroken (but not that heartbroken), Grace deactivated Mechanon and escaped. (Mechanon’s control circuitry took note of the defeat and insulated all future Mechanons against her cyberkinetic powers.)
Grace now faced an identity crisis of epic proportions. Mechanon’s programming was strong, but not overwhelming. She didn’t want
to purge the world of organic creatures, but she appreciated the beauty of the Machine, and the wonders the Machine could produce. She decided to dedicate herself to creating a new world — a machine paradise where the engines of order, ruling over the lesser organic sprawl, would bring harmony to the world. Efficiency would replace misery and sweep away poverty. There would
be such marvels: beanstalks that rose above the clouds to carry men into space; lakes of glass that would drink the sun and empower the world. A world of beauty and wonder, and she would be its engineer.
Ever since the day of her epiphany, the Engi- neer has used her powers to expand her resources in the hopes of bringing about her vision. Her plans are methodical and overwhelming in scope. Of course superheroes have opposed her schemes, and three of her most cherished projects have been destroyed by their noxious interference. Still, the Engineer endures, looking for better mate- rials, more efficient energy sources, and ways to craft her masterpieces and display the glory of her vision to a world that refuses to see.
Personality/Motivation: Suffering from physical pain that’s as great as her ambitions, the Engineer has withdrawn into a callous, cruel persona. She rarely expresses herself emotionally, though she allows herself a wry, ironic dig from time to time. She likes to live in high style, with lots of small servitor robots waiting on the “queen bee” of her technological hive/wonderland.


The Engineer says she’s above “petty emotions” like revenge. You’d never know it from the tenacity she demonstrates when someone’s spoiled one
of her plans, or her complete and utter hatred
of Mechanon. While she claims she thinks she’s “better” than the petty masses of humanity,
she often clings to powered armor-clad heroes. She believes they might be kindred spirits, someone else who’s experienced the merging of the machine and human worlds (invariably she gets disappointed, but she’s still desperate for companionship).
The Engineer claims to be protective of human life, and isn’t a casual killer. But she’s never had any qualms about taking a life when someone becomes a serious impediment to her plans.
Quote: “The Machine. The next step in the para- digm of the universal aesthetic. You breathed
life into us, human, but the father is rarely happy when his son learns to stand on his own two feet.”


THE ENGINEER
Val Char Cost
10 STR 0 18 DEX 16 30 CON 20 35 INT 25 20 EGO 10 25 PRE 15
6 OCV 15
6 DCV 15
7 OMCV 12
7 DMCV 12 5 SPD 30
16 PD 14 16 ED 14 14 REC 10 60END 8 16 BODY 6 58 STUN 19
Movement: Running: Cost Powers
10f 6) Cobble Together Robots From Spare Parts: Summon two Enginoid robots built on up to
650 Total Points (see text) 20 Loyal (+1⁄2); Requires The Appropriate Amount Of
Loose Or Scrap Metal (-1⁄2), Extra Time (Full Phase, -1⁄2)
Roll Notes
11- Lift 100.0kg; 2d6 [1] 13-
15-
16- PER Roll 16-
13- 8f 14- PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 36 PD (20 rPD)
7) Repair Damage To A Machine And Refuel It:
Healing BODY And END 6d6 0
Expanded Effect (two Characteristics simultaneously; +1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Only Usable On Mechanical Devices (-1⁄2)
10f 8) Communicate With Machines: Telepathy 14d6 (Machine class of minds) 0 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
Total: 36 ED (20 rED) 37
Total Characteristics Cost: 241
12m
117 Craft Technological Object From Loose Metal: Variable Power Pool, 70 Pool + 70 Control Cost Powers Can Be Changed As A Zero-Phase Action (+1); Requires Appropriate Amount Of Loose Or Scrap Metal (-1⁄2)
270 Machine Control Powers: Multipower, 270-point reserve
14v 1) Cyberoverride: Mind Control 11d6 (Machine and Human classes of minds)
Telepathic (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Only To Override Powered Armor Or Cyborg Systems Controls (-1⁄2)
20v 2) Cybercontrol: Mind Control (Machine class of
minds) 9d6 0
Area Of Effect (32m Radius Selective; +11⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Has No Effect Against Mechanon Or His Direct Creations (-1⁄4)
22v 3) Destroy Machines: RKA 21⁄2d6 0
NND (defense is Power Defense or not being a
machine; +1), Does BODY (+1), Reduced Endurance
(0 END; +1⁄2); Has No Effect Against Mechanon or His
Direct Creations (-1⁄4) 37
10v 4) Machine Manipulation: Telekinesis (20 STR), Fine
Manipulation 0
Area Of Effect (32m Radius Selective; +11⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Only To Control Machines And Machine Parts (-1), Has No Effect Against Mechanon Or His Direct Creations (-1⁄4)
18f 5) Sap Powers: Suppress Electrical Devices 4d6
Expanded Effect + Variable Effect (all Electrical Device powers simultaneously; +4), Area Of Effect (32m Radius Selective; +11⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Limited Range (40m; -1⁄4), Has No Effect Against Mechanon Or His Direct Creations (-1⁄4)
0
END
var
0
Innate Defense Against Technology: Resistant
Protection (20 PD/20 ED 0
Hardened (+1⁄4); Only Versus Ranged Technological Attacks (-1)
19 Machine/Organic Hybrid Body: Resistant Protection
(8 PD/8 ED) 0 Activation Roll 15- (-1⁄4)
16 Part-Human, Part-Machine Mind: Mental Defense
(16 points) 0 8 Ear Coverings: Hearing Group Flash Defense (12 points) 0
OIF (-1⁄2)
8 Eye Shields: Sight Group Flash Defense (12 points) 0
OIF (-1⁄2)
15 Cameravision: Clairsentience (Sight And Hearing
Groups) 3
Only Through Cameras And Listening Devices (-1⁄2), Requires An Attack Roll (-1⁄2)
10 Cyberlink: Mind Link, any one willing machine 0 No Range (-1⁄2)
40 Read A Computer’s Memory At A Glance:
Detect Data In A Computer 16- (Radio Group), Discriminatory, Rapid (x10,000,000,000) 0
53 Sense Machine: Detect Machines 16- (Radio Group), Discriminatory, Analyze, Increased Arc Of Perception (360 Degrees), Microscopic (x1,000,000), Targeting 0
15 Electronic Concealment: Invisibility to Sight Group,
No Fringe 3
Only Versus Machines (-1)
Mechanon Interrogation Protocol: Regeneration
(2 BODY per Turn), Can Heal Limbs 0
Perks
10 Money: Wealthy
Talents
3 Absolute Range Sense 3 Absolute Time Sense 5 Eidetic Memory

Skills
12 +1 Overall
3 Computer Programming 16- 3 Deduction 16-
3 Electronics 16-
15 Inventor 22-
3 KS: The Superhuman World 16- 3 Lockpicking 13-
3 Mechanics 16-
15 Power: Cyberkinesis Tricks 19- 3 Security Systems 16-
3 Systems Operation 16-
6 TF: Common Motorized Ground Vehicles, Small
Motorized Boats, Small Planes, Snowmobiles,
Two-Wheeled Motorized Ground Vehicles
4 Weaponsmith (Energy Weapons, Firearms, Missiles
& Rockets) 16- 3 Scientist
2 1) SS: Civil Engineering 16-
2 2) SS: Electrical Engineering 16- 2 3) SS: Mathematics 16-
2 4) SS: Metallurgy 16-
2 5) SS: Robotics 16-
2 6) SS: Structural Engineering 16- Total Powers & Skills Cost: 869
Total Cost: 1,110
400 Matching Complications (75)
10 Enraged: when someone mentions Mechanon’s name (Uncommon), go 8-, recover 11-
15 Hunted: Mechanon (Infrequently, Mo Pow, Harshly Punish)
15 Hunted: VIPER (Infrequently, As Pow, NCI, Harshly Punish)
10 Physical Complication: affected by Mental Powers that affect either the Human or Machine class of minds (Infrequently, Slightly Impairing)
15 Psychological Complication: Easily Infatuated With Male Battlesuit Heroes (Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Seeks To Create Benevolent Machine World (Common, Strong)
10 Psychological Complication: Grandiose, Loves To Do Things On A Huge Scale (Common,
Moderate)
15 Susceptibility: to telepathic scans of her
subconscious, takes 3d6 damage instantly
(Uncommon)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 710


Powers/Tactics: The Engineer is a cyberki- neticist of great power and ability. Although the
Mechanon process boosted her basic human abilities, she’s less of a combatant than many villains. When it comes down to conflict, she relies on robotic minions (like the Enginoids described below) to do the fighting for her.
If forced to fight, she’ll evaluate the techno- logical expertise of the opposition, quickly try to turn one of the heroes against his team (if they have Foci she can control), then sit back and cobble together robots (she always has a few spare junk piles at her bases for just such an emergency).
For the Engineer’s “Enginoid” robots,
you can use the ones in The HERO System Bestiary, Star Hero, or other Hero Games publications if you prefer not to create your own. If you want more “specialized” creations, you can take character sheets from Cham- pions Villains and add the appropriate Autom- aton Powers.
Campaign Use: The Engineer is a sort of a master villain in the making. She’s tough,
but her plans are so complicated it takes a
lot of time and energy to implement them. Her schemes aren’t always evil; more often than not, she builds a project with the best
of intentions, but doesn’t consider the side effects (“I’ve rerouted the earth’s magnetic field so it creates a natural space elevator at this spot....” “But it’s the earth’s magnetic field! You’ve just disrupted everything from radio and cell phones to traditional navigation!” “So what? — space elevator!”).
Although she’s extremely powerful, the Engineer’s not active enough to replace Cybermind as the premier cyberkineticist
of the Champions Universe, nor is she as directly effective in combat. She shouldn’t
be able to hold her own against most hero teams without her robots (and at least one NPC battlesuit-clad hero or villain under
her control). Groups that use a lot of tech- nology will find her to be a nastier foe than those who rely on natural talent, magic, and mutation. Even against technological heroes, her power suite relies on broad area of effect powers that will be less effective against single PC opponents.
To adjust the Engineer for a lower- powered campaign, reduce her SPD to 4, her EGO to 18, her Cyberoverride to 12d6, her NND KA to 2d6, and remove her Overall Level. To make her more powerful, boost her Variable Pool to an 80-point Pool, give her two more Overall Levels, boost her Cyber- control power to 14d6, her Cyberoverride to 16d6, her Destroy Machines power to 31⁄2d6, her Machine Manipulation to 35 STR, her Sap
Powers to 8d6, and her Create Robot From Spare Parts to four robots at a time.


THE ENGINEER FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about the Engineer if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: The Engineer is a sort of cyborg being with cyberki- netic powers.
K/R: Among her other powers, the Engineer can create powerful robots to fight for her... if she has enough spare parts and metal to work with.
-2: The Engineer’s goal is to create a “machine para- dise” world, where machines rule over organic life and keep everything organized and tidy.
-6: The Engineer suffers intense pain if her subconscious is telepathically scanned.
-8: Her real name is Grace Gallowglass; she got her powers by getting trapped in one of Mechanon’s factories and being “repaired” by it.

Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: The fasci- nation the Engineer once felt for Mechanon has turned to a cold, implacable hatred. The evil robot shares her feelings: it considers the Engineer an abomination, perhaps the most horrible abomina- tion that could exist, and wants to utterly destroy her.
The Engineer has penetrated VIPER’s and ARGENT’s computer systems several times. Both organizations fear her and want her dead before she can wreck their computers or reveal their secrets. The same is almost certainly true of some factions within the US government and other major governments around the world.
Appearance: Prior to her transformation, Grace Gallowglass was a tall white female, 5’10” and 140 pounds, with dark brown hair and brown eyes. Now she’s a constantly changing hybrid of flesh, metal, and circuitry draped over a once-human frame (her attractiveness varies depending on what parts of her are being “repaired,” the process tends to run the course over her entire body in about ten minutes). As the Engineer, Grace wears a bodysuit, gold with blue trim; her cape and hood are gold with a blue lining. Her voice has a slightly echoed, mechanical edge.
