THE BASILISK
Background/History: Allen Walker was a history professor at Millennium City University specializing in the study of medieval history and civilization. It wasn’t the most glamorous of fields, but he enjoyed it... and it gave him the chance to travel to Europe
a lot. During one of his European trips he chanced across what appeared to be a genuine thirteenth- century bestiary in remarkably good condition in
a used book store in Prague. The proprietor didn’t seem to know what he had on his hands, so Prof. Walker was able to buy the book for a very low price. Taking it back to his hotel room he began eagerly (but carefully!) reading it, already planning in his head the journal article he’d write about this amazing find.
Then something caught his eye — a particularly beautiful illuminated page, with serpents, lizards, and dragons surrounding writing so vividly colored it was as if it had been put down on the vellum just yesterday. Puzzling over the words, Walker realized they were some sort of spell for conjuring basilisks, or creating basilisks, or something like that — the dialect was fairly obscure, it was hard to tell exactly what some of the words meant. Motivated by a spirit of impish delight in his discovery and a few too many glasses of wine, Walker read the incantation aloud.
Suddenly intense pain wracked his body! As he doubled over in agony and fell to the floor, Walker realized the verb he’d been puzzling over wasn’t to control basilisks, or conjure them... it was to trans- form someone into one. And then the pain became too much to bear, and he passed out.
When he awoke a few minutes later, things seemed... different. The quality of the light wasn’t quite the same, and it seemed chillier in his room. He struggled to his feet and looked in the mirror... and discovered to his shock that he’d been trans- formed into some sort of human basilisk! Soon
he found out the transformation was more than physical — he could petrify people and things with beams he shot from his eyes, could withstand horrific injury, and could even control reptiles. Armed with these newfound powers he decided to get his revenge on the world as the Basilisk.
Personality/Motivation: Allen Walker’s always
felt snubbed, ignored, and abused by the world
— someone of his intellectual capacity and compe- tence should be a leader, admired and feared, not some academic schlepped off to an ivory tower and ignored by women. As the Basilisk he’s determined to strike back at the world that’s treated him so badly, take what he feels he deserves, and make other people feel small, powerless, and meaningless. The sheer power of his superhuman persona is intoxi- cating; he’s virtually become addicted to spending time as the crafty Basilisk, to the point where it’s beginning to imperil his job.
The Basilisk particularly dislikes being intellectu- ally insulted or challenged. He’s right, and he knows he’s right, and if necessary he’ll do whatever he must to prove that he’s a hero’s intellectual superior.

BASILISK FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about the Basilisk if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: The Basilisk is a supervillain who has the power to transform people and objects into stone.
K/R: The Basilisk also has the ability to summon and control reptiles.
-2: The Basilisk seems to think very highly of himself, and often becomes intensely angry if someone claims he’s wrong or chal- lenges his opinions.
-6: The Basilisk suffers intense pain when struck with Ice/Cold attacks.
-8: The Basilisk
is sufficiently animal-like that he’s susceptible to psionic powers that ordinarily only affect animals.
-10: His Secret Identity is Allen Walker; he’s a history professor at Millennium City University.

Quote: “I’ll show you what “getting stoned” really means, you costumed fool!”
Powers/Tactics: Allen Walker has the power to transform himself into the superhuman Basi- lisk. Switching from his normal human form to Basilisk form involves reciting an incantation and takes about thirty seconds. It’s possible that some spells or situations might trigger his transformation instantaneously, but so far he hasn’t found them.
The Basilisk has several powers. In addition to being stronger, faster, and much tougher than an ordinary human, he can fire beams from his eyes that turn things to stone. This power is much more effective against living beings, but he can also affect inanimate objects to some degree. He also has power over reptiles — he can call them to him if they’re nearby, and mentally control them. He doesn’t use this power often, but it’s a good way to obtain a few “henchmen” from the local zoo when he needs a distraction during one of his crimes.
For Skills based on DEX or PRE, the listed roll is his roll in Basilisk form; in normal form he only has those Skills on an 11-.
Campaign Use: The Basilisk is an all-purpose villain, though his main power can be diffi- cult to use — you may want to have him use fewer than 8d6 so he isn’t such a threat to your PCs. On the other hand, you can create some interesting plots if he Transforms one PC (or a beloved NPC), then forces the heroes to do something for him as the price of un-Trans- forming that victim.
To make the Basilisk more powerful, give him other reptile powers — such as the ability to change shape into various reptiles, assume reptilian attributes, or the like. To weaken him, reduce his Petrifying Gaze to 6d6.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Due to the massive chip on his shoulder and his intel- lectual vanity, the Basilisk doesn’t get along well with most other supervillains. He hates being told what to do (particularly by anyone he regards as his intellectual inferior... and that includes most other villains). As a result, the odds are he won’t work with other villains more than once or twice before mutual dislike drives them apart.
Appearance: In his villainous identity, the Basilisk is 6’0” tall with a muscular, athletic build. His skin is a sort of reptilian grey-green, and scaly, but the scales are so fine that they’re difficult to see from a distance. His facial features are somewhat reptilian: pointed ears; snake-like, yellow eyes; a snub, up-turned nose; sharp teeth (but not large enough to be consid- ered fangs or used as weapons). His costume is a navy blue bodystocking with sleeves that end halfway down the lower arm, orange-gold knee- high boots and belt, and an orange-gold “circle” around his neck (he wears no gloves or mask)

Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
20 STR 20 DEX 25 CON 15 INT 15 EGO 25 PRE
8* 16* 12* 5 5 12*
13- 13- 14- 12- 12- 14-
Lift 400 kg; 4d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 20 PD (20 rPD)
Total: 20 ED (20 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 165
*: OIAID (-1⁄4) 12m
7 OCV 16* 7 DCV 16* 3 OMCV 0 3 DMCV 0
5 SPD 20 PD
24*
14*
20 ED
9 REC 5 50END 6 15 BODY 4* 40 STUN 8*
THE BASILISK
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
END
14*
86 Petrifying Gaze: Severe Transform 8d6 (living beings
into stone; heals back through another application
of this power) 6 Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); OIAID (-1⁄4),
Limited Range (100m; -1⁄4), Limited Target (living
beings; -1⁄4)
17 Lesser Petrifying Gaze: Severe Transform 2d6 (anything non-living into stone; heals back
through another application of this power) 3
OIAID (-1⁄4), Limited Range (100m; -1⁄4), Limited Target (non-living things; -1⁄4)
30 Control Reptilian Minds: Mind Control 12d6
(Animal class of minds) 6
OIAID (-1⁄4), Reptiles And Amphibians Only (-1⁄2), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
28 Call To The Scaly Ones: Summon up to eight reptiles/
amphibians built on up to 200 Total Points each 7
Expanded Class (any reptile or amphibian; +1⁄4); OIAID (-1⁄4), Arrives Under Own Power (-1⁄2), Summoned Being Must Inhabit Locale (-1⁄2), Unified Power (-1⁄4)
16 Basilisk’s Skin: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 20 PD/20 ED 0 OIAID (-1⁄4)
5 Basilisk’s Eyes: Ultraviolet Perception (Sight Group) 0 5 Basilisk’s Eyes: Nightvision 0
Perks
2 Fringe Benefit: Tenure at Millennium City University
Skills
9 +3 with Petrifying Gaze and Lesser Petrifying Gaze
3 Bureaucratics 14- 3 Climbing 13-
3 Interrogation 14-
2 Language: French (fluent conversation; English is Native) 2 Language: German (fluent conversation)
1 Language: Greek (basic conversation)
3 Language: Latin (completely fluent)
3 Persuasion 14-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Scholar
1 1) KS: The Academic World 11-
1 2) KS: Arcane And Occult Lore 11- 5 3) KS: Medieval Bestiaries 15-
5 4) KS: Medieval History And Culture 15- 1 5) KS: Millennium City University 11-
1 6) KS: The Superhuman World 11-
1 7) KS: Wine 11-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 239 Total Cost: 404
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: Trismegistus Council (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI,
Capture/Kill)
10 Physical Complication: Affected By Mental Powers That
Affect Animal Class Of Minds As Well As Human Class
(Infrequently, Slightly Impairing)
15 Psychological Complication: My Turn To Be The Bully
Now (Common, Strong)
10 Psychological Complication: Intellectual Vanity; Has To
Prove That He’s Right (Common, Moderate)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Prof. Allen Walker)
(Frequently, Major)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Ice/Cold attacks
(Uncommon)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 4

