THE CURSE
Background/History: Thousands of years ago the Pharaoh Amen-hab-itep was buried with great pomp and ceremony in a secret tomb not far from the fabled Valley of the Kings. As the tomb was sealed, the priests called upon the power of the god Anubis to place a terrible curse on it: whom- soever would be the first to violate the tomb would be fated to become its guardian, a creature of great magical power and singular purpose.
Centuries passed... and the tomb remained inviolate. For some reason tomb robbers never found out about it, and in time the curse unchar- acteristically began to fade. By the late twentieth century it was weak indeed... but by no means gone.
In 1998 an archaeological expedition that included graduate student Scott Thomaszewksi discovered Amen-hab-itep’s tomb. Realizing from the state of the outer doors that it was intact, and thus might even eclipse King Tut’s tomb for riches and knowledge, the expedition leaders chose to wait a few days before opening it so they could have proper security measures in place.
But Thomaszewksi was too impatient to wait. While the rest of the expedition was sleeping he crept back to the tomb’s entrance. Carefully using a crowbar, he wedged the outer doors open... and activated the curse. Without warning Thomasze- wksi was psychically and mystically assaulted and transformed into a mummy-like being of great power... but because the curse was so weak after thousands of years, it was unable to fasten onto his mind as well as it fastened onto his body. Instead of becoming the tomb’s guardian he simply went on a rampage, using his newfound powers to slaughter the entire expedition.
A few weeks of wandering in the desert brought Thomaszewksi back to his normal self, or at least his right mind. He still had the guard- ian’s form and powers, but his human person- ality re-asserted itself. He figured out what had happened, and then realized he could never truly return to normal society... but with the power
of life and death literally in his hands, he could become fabulously rich. Soon a new supervillain was offering his services to the underworld — a strange, mummy-garbed man who simply called himself the Curse.
Since then the Curse has cut a swath through the world, killing almost at will anyone he’s been hired to kill. And slowly but surely the curse has continued to eat away at Thomaszewksi’s mind, making him less and less human and more of a monstrous thing five thousand years away from home.

THE CURSE FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about the Curse if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: The Curse
is a supervillain who looks (and acts) something like an ancient Egyptian mummy from a horror movie. His touch is instantly lethal to most people, even superhumans.
-1: The Curse seems to be mentally unbal- anced somehow; occasionally
during battle or missions he’ll stop in mid-action and begin muttering to himself in mixed English and Ancient Egyptian.
-6: Holy magics and powers cause the Curse intense pain.
-10: His Secret Identity is Scott Thomaszewksi; he used to be a Millen- nium City University graduate student in archaeology.

THE CURSE
Val Char Cost Roll Notes
40 STR 30 17- 25 DEX 30 14- 50 CON 40 19- 20 INT 10 13- 20 EGO 10 13- 40 PRE 30 17-
8 OCV 25 7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0 7 DMCV 12
Lift 6,400 kg; 8d6 HTH damage [4]
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack: 8d6
Phases: 3, 6, 9, 12 Total: 40 PD (40 rPD)
Total: 40 ED (40 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 393
4 SPD 40 PD
20
38
40 ED
30 REC 26 100 END 16 30 BODY 20
76 STUN
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
38
28
172 Death Touch: RKA 7d6
NND (defense is Life Support [Longevity]; +1), Does BODY (+1), Area Of Effect (personal Surface — Damage Shield; +1⁄4), Constant (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2), Persistent (+1⁄4); No Range (-1⁄2), Only Versus Living Beings (-1), No Knockback (-1⁄4)
130 Matter-Aging Touch: RKA 6d6
NND (defense is Life Support [Longevity]; +1),
Does BODY (+1), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); No Range (-1⁄2), Only Versus Non-Living Objects (-1⁄2), No Knockback (-1⁄4)
65 Matter-Aging Tunneling: Tunneling 12m through 20 PD material
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
20 Cursed Vitality: Hardened (+1⁄4) for 40 PD/40 ED 50 Cursed Vitality: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 40 PD/40 ED
Hardened (+1⁄4)
20 Divided Mind: Mental Defense (20 points) 20 Divided Ka: Power Defense (20 points)
40 Cursed Vitality: Life Support (Total, including
Longevity: Immortality)
Talents
15 Combat Sense 13-
Appearance: The Curse looks like
a classical Egyptian mummy with a pharaoh’s headdress. Early in his career, when his American personality remained dominant, he often “accessorized”
by adding sunglasses, a belt, or other modern touches; in more recent years, as his personalities have balanced, he usually eschews such touches.
2
0 0
0 0
0
Skills
10 +5 OCV with Death Touch
1 Computer Programming 8-
2 AK: Millennium City University 11-
2 KS: Egyptian Civilization And Culture 11- 1 KS: The Superhuman World 8-
1 Language: Ancient Egyptian (basic conversation; English
is Native)
2 SS: Anthropology 11-
2 SS: Archaeology 11-
1 Streetwise 8-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 554 Total Cost: 947
400 Matching Complications (75)
15 Hunted: Ma’at 14- (As Pow, Limited Geographical Area, Kill)
15 Hunted: Dr. Ka (Frequently, As Pow, Capture)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Psychological Complication: Casual Killer (Very
Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Split Personality (see text)
(Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Scott Thomasze-
wksi) (Frequently, Major)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Holy magics/powers
(Uncommon)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x BODY from Holy magics/powers
(Uncommon)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 547


Personality/Motivation: The Curse’s two person- alities — his normal human one and the one the curse would impose — continue to war with each other. Neither can fully assert itself anymore, but neither can either of them be suppressed for a long period of time. During the day the Thomaszewksi personality’s more likely to dominate; at night
the monstrous guardian personality (which, by
its current twisted logic, regards nearly anyone important as a “tomb violator” worthy of death) often holds sway. During any stressful situation, the Curse may have trouble keeping control of himself. Once each combat the GM should roll his Psychological Complication; if he fails, he spends 1d6 Phases standing in place, twitching, some- times mumbling to himself in mingled English and Ancient Egyptian, as his two selves fight for his body.
Quote: “Your deeds have laid a Curse upon you... and I am here to fulfill it.”
Powers/Tactics: The magics of the ancient malediction that gave the Curse his powers have made him a formidable mystical killing machine. First and foremost among his powers is his Death Touch, which can kill nearly anyone, including many superhumans, instantaneously. (He can also instantly age, and thus effectively disintegrate, unliving matter.) Beyond that he’s superhumanly strong and immensely durable. If he has any weaknesses, they’re that he’s comparatively slow in combat (for a superhuman) and has no movement or sensory abilities (beyond his Combat Sense).
Campaign Use: The Curse requires careful handling due to the overwhelmingly powerful nature of his Death Touch — he could easily kill several PCs if you’re not cautious. In many cases the heroes’ goal in fighting the Curse shouldn’t be to come to grips with him, it should be avoiding him while finding ways to stop him indirectly (by, say, luring him into a puddle and then dropping a high-voltage line on him).
If you need to make the Curse an even tougher opponent, increase his SPD to 5 and give him the ability to Teleport. To weaken him just ratchet down the dice in his attacks to a more comfortable level for your campaign, and perhaps decrease his defenses a little as well.
The Curse is possibly the most tenacious Hunter in the Champions Universe. He doesn’t have to eat or sleep and can remain focused on his goal with fanatic intensity. The only warning his quarry may have is the muffled clack of his skeletally thin feet on the pavement or floor as he approaches....
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Almost no one gets along with the Curse; he’s too strange, unpredictable, and deadly for most supervillains to want to have anything to do with. It’s possible that the god Set might somehow force him to work with Anubis (page 13) to further some scheme of the night-god’s.


Personality/Motivation: The Curse’s two person- alities — his normal human one and the one the curse would impose — continue to war with each other. Neither can fully assert itself anymore, but neither can either of them be suppressed for a long period of time. During the day the Thomaszewksi personality’s more likely to dominate; at night
the monstrous guardian personality (which, by
its current twisted logic, regards nearly anyone important as a “tomb violator” worthy of death) often holds sway. During any stressful situation, the Curse may have trouble keeping control of himself. Once each combat the GM should roll his Psychological Complication; if he fails, he spends 1d6 Phases standing in place, twitching, some- times mumbling to himself in mingled English and Ancient Egyptian, as his two selves fight for his body.
Quote: “Your deeds have laid a Curse upon you... and I am here to fulfill it.”
Powers/Tactics: The magics of the ancient malediction that gave the Curse his powers have made him a formidable mystical killing machine. First and foremost among his powers is his Death Touch, which can kill nearly anyone, including many superhumans, instantaneously. (He can also instantly age, and thus effectively disintegrate, unliving matter.) Beyond that he’s superhumanly strong and immensely durable. If he has any weaknesses, they’re that he’s comparatively slow in combat (for a superhuman) and has no movement or sensory abilities (beyond his Combat Sense).
Campaign Use: The Curse requires careful handling due to the overwhelmingly powerful nature of his Death Touch — he could easily kill several PCs if you’re not cautious. In many cases the heroes’ goal in fighting the Curse shouldn’t be to come to grips with him, it should be avoiding him while finding ways to stop him indirectly (by, say, luring him into a puddle and then dropping a high-voltage line on him).
If you need to make the Curse an even tougher opponent, increase his SPD to 5 and give him the ability to Teleport. To weaken him just ratchet down the dice in his attacks to a more comfortable level for your campaign, and perhaps decrease his defenses a little as well.
The Curse is possibly the most tenacious Hunter in the Champions Universe. He doesn’t have to eat or sleep and can remain focused on his goal with fanatic intensity. The only warning his quarry may have is the muffled clack of his skeletally thin feet on the pavement or floor as he approaches....
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Almost no one gets along with the Curse; he’s too strange, unpredictable, and deadly for most supervillains to want to have anything to do with. It’s possible that the god Set might somehow force him to work with Anubis (page 13) to further some scheme of the night-god’s.

