Background/History: “Doctor Lloyd! Can you tell us more about your new wonder drug?”
“Doctor Lloyd! When will the drug be available?”
Lawrence Lloyd, doyen of the Millennium
City University Department of Botany, waited for the hubbub of questions to die down before he addressed the reporters. “I’m sorry, but I can’t give you any more details at this time. As I announced yesterday, I’m extremely close to a breakthrough toward a revolutionary new heart medicine, based on my researches into certain plant extracts. When more details are available, believe me, I’ll let you know.” With that, he pushed past the shouting reporters and into the quiet of his lab.
Now he just had to create what he’d promised.
When he heard the report out of Harvard, about the new drugs their botanists were devel- oping, jealousy had consumed him. He was the greatest scientist in the field of botany! If some also-ran from New England could create new drugs, he could create better drugs! To keep the Ivy Leaguers from stealing the spotlight, he made his own announcement... before he’d even begun any experiments. But he knew he could do it!


Long hours of work followed, using DNA from many species of plants he’d already studied — including specimens he’d gathered in the Congo rain forest that were unknown to other botanists. But as he worked, he became tired... and careless. While attempting to inject his latest “botano- serum” into a guinea pig, he missed and jabbed himself in the hand, pumping his bloodstream full of the strange chemical.
He panicked, running out of the lab toward
the university’s hospital. But as he ran, he felt
pain lance through his body. He dropped to the ground, moaning in agony. He began to trans- form. Skin became bark, hair became leaves, fingers became roots. Terrified, he crawled into the underbrush beside the road to hide.
It wasn’t long before his fears had vanished. Somehow the botano-serum had turned him into some sort of man-plant hybrid! His scientific curi- osity aroused, he began to experiment, discovering he was immensely strong, and had other powers to boot. With a few moments’ concentration, he could even revert back to his normal human form.
The possibilities were intriguing....
Personality/Motivation: Once a gifted (if overly proud and bombastic) scientist, Thorn has undergone a psychological transformation almost as profound as the changes to his physical form. He used to enjoy the company of the plants in his greenhouse, often in preference to the company of other people, but he got along with his colleagues and friends well enough. Now he loathes other humans, and animals to boot — the ones who prey on his beloved plants. He finds it difficult to tolerate the presence of other people (and even broke up with his fiancee, Deborah Greaves), and becomes furious if anyone touches him.
His 2006-2009 incarceration in Stronghold enraged him because guards and other inmates were constantly coming into contact with his body.
At present, Thorn’s attitude has led him to vandalize farms (to “free” the plants), destroy logging operations, and engage in other such acts of “eco-terrorism.” As time goes by, his opinions will probably become more and more extreme, until he reaches the point where he’s a botanical counterpart to Mechanon who wants to cleanse all human life from Earth so plants can grow unhindered.
Quote: “You can’t hurt me, you... mammal. I am the strength of the oak personified!”
Powers/Tactics: Thorn’s powers result from
the experimental botano-serum he accidentally injected himself with. It altered his cellular struc- ture, allowing him to transform into a human- plant hybrid. His powers, which only work in
his Thorn form, include not only great strength and resilience, but the ability to shoot thorns or various dangerous spore-clouds, to transform ordinary plants into monstrous, gigantic servants ( use the Monstrous Plants from HSB 186-92 for these), and to cause ambient plant-life to engulf and entangle his foes.

Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
3 Tendrils And Vines: Extra Limbs (up to a dozen) Costs Endurance (-1⁄2), OIAID (-1⁄4)
5 Rapid Growth: Stretching 6m OIAID (-1⁄4)
Talents
4 Environmental Movement: Thicketmaster (no penalties in undergrowth)
Skills
10 +2 with Plant Attacks Multipower
1 Computer Programming 8-
2 AK: Millennium City University 11-
2 KS: The Academic World 11- 1 KS: Roses 8-
1 KS: The Superhuman World 8-
3 SS: Biology 12-
6 SS: Botany 15-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Tracking 12-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 271 Total Cost: 450
400 Matching Complications (75)
10 Accidental Change: when he experiences significant stress or becomes Enraged 11- (Uncommon)
20 Enraged: when sees trees and plants being harmed or destroyed (Uncommon), go 14-, recover 11-
25 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 25 Hunted: Teleios (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Physical Complication: Desensitized Touch (-2 to all
DEX Rolls when in Thorn form) (Frequently, Slightly
Impairing)
15 Psychological Complication: Hatred Of Human And
Animal Life (Common, Strong)
10 Psychological Complication: Proud; Can’t Stand To Be
1 1
25 STR 20 DEX 23 CON 15 INT 15 EGO 20 PRE
12* 16* 10*
5
5 8*
14- 13- 14- 12- 12- 13-
Lift 800 kg; 5d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 21 PD (6 rPD)
7 OCV 16* 7 DCV 16* 6 OMCV 7* 6 DMCV 7*
24*
5 SPD 15 PD
10* 6* 20 REC 13* 45 END 4* 15 BODY 4* 60 STUN 16*
10 ED
Total: 16 ED (6 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 179
Movement: Running: Tunneling:
Cost Powers
*: OIAID (-1⁄4)
12m 6m
60 Plant Attacks: Multipower, 75-point reserve All OIAID (-1⁄4)
4f 1) Thorn Spray: RKA 2d6
Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), +1 Increased STUN Multiplier
(+1⁄4); OIAID (-1⁄4)
4f 2) Choking Spores: Blast 6d6
NND (defense is Life Support [Self-Contained Breathing]; +1); Limited Range (8m; -1⁄4), OIAID (-1⁄4)
4f 3) Controlling Spores: Mind Control 12d6 (Human
class of minds) 7
ACV (uses OCV against DMCV; +1⁄4); Cannot Feed END To Maintain Effect (-1⁄4), Limited Range (8m; -1⁄4), OIAID (-1⁄4)
3f 4) Tangling Growth: Entangle 6d6, 6 PD/6 ED 6 OIF (plants of opportunity; -1⁄2), OIAID (-1⁄4)
1f 5) Strength Of The Trees: STR +35 9 Increased Endurance Cost (x3 END; -1), OIAID (-1⁄4)
48 Control Plants: Mind Control 12d6
(Plant class of minds) 6 OIAID (-1⁄4)
78 Quicken Plants: Summon up to 4 monstrous plants
built on up to 300 Total Points (see HSB 186-92) 8
Expanded Class (+1⁄4), Slavishly Loyal (+1), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); OIF (appropriate plants of opportunity; -1⁄2), Extra Time (Full Phase; -1⁄2), OIAID (-1⁄4)
14 Bark-Like Skin: Resistant Protection (6 PD/6 ED) 0 OIAID (-1⁄4)
7 Burrowing: Tunneling 6m through PD 3 material 2 Increased Endurance Cost (x2 END; -1⁄2), OIAID (-1⁄4)
4 Heightened Senses: Infrared Perception (Sight Group) 0 OIAID (-1⁄4)
Outdone Or Humiliated (Common, Moderate)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Dr. Lawrence Lloyd)
(Frequently, Major)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Herbicides (Uncommon) 10 Vulnerability: 2 x BODY from Herbicides (Uncommon) Total Complications Points: 75
Experience Points: 50
END
5 6
Appearance: Thorn resembles a strange and disturbing cross between man and plant. His skin has become like grey-brown bark, and his
flesh more fibrous and dense. His hair looks more like leaves, and other sprouts of leaves cover his waist or tuft out here and there in patches. His fingers and toes are root-like, slender and gnarled but possessed of great strength. His eyes and mouth resemble knotholes in an old tree as much as anything. Tiny thorns have sprouted from various places on his body (including, most noticeably, his forearms), and he often has vines or tendrils growing out to twine around parts of his form.
When not in Thorn form, Lawrence Lloyd is an average-looking white man in his late thirties with short, dark hair, no facial hair, and glasses. He usually wears comfortable clothes and a lab coat.

Normally, to transform into Thorn, Lloyd has to expose himself to his botano-serum, either by injection or inhalation (he carries a small vial or two of the fluid with him at all times). But in some cases, when he’s under a lot of stress, or becomes Enraged, he transforms spontaneously. He hopes, in time, to reach the point where he can activate his powers without the serum (i.e., to buy off the OIAID Limitation on his powers), but he’s not there yet (thanks largely to spending several years in Stronghold when he couldn’t change to Thorn at all).
Thorn prefers to start combat by creating some of his plant-creatures (if possible, he’ll do this before the battle begins). Then he uses whatever Plant Attack powers seem best suited to the situa- tion. He doesn’t like working with others; he will if he has to, but almost never bothers to support, help, or defend his teammates. After all, they’re just people.
Campaign Use: Thorn is a good candidate for second-rate-master-villain-in-training. He’ll prob- ably never reach the pinnacles of power inhabited by the likes of Firewing, Gravitar, Holocaust, or Interface, but he could easily become a major threat to humanity. For his initial appearances in the campaign, he probably works best if he either teams up with other villains for a little while (much to his disgust), or provides his own combat support through plant-monsters. As time goes
by, he can create other plant-oriented villains, forming a team of his own under his direct control. Ultimately, between his servants and his monstrous plants, he’ll be able to give any team a run for its money.
To make Thorn stronger, you can boost the Active Points in his powers, or you can add new ones. He could, for example, develop other spore powers — such as spores that Transform people into human-plant hybrids under his control, or acidic spores able to eat through metal. (See the “Wood And Plant Powers” section of Champions Powers for other ideas.) Or maybe a little Regen- eration, Change Environment (make plants bloom and grow), or the like would be what he needs. To weaken him, reduce the Active Points in his Power Frameworks, or remove some of the slots; you could also reduce his STUN and REC.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Thorn doesn’t like associating with other people at
all (though he might change his tune if he met another plant-based villain). He particularly hates Stiletto, who beat him up several times in Strong- hold, and is looking forward to getting revenge on him.

THORN FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Thorn if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Thorn is a supervillain with plant powers. He can control plants, make them grow at tremendous speeds to trip and grab people, and project sprays of thorns and spores.
K/R: His real name is Lawrence Lloyd; he used to be a botanist at Millen- nium City University. He can change back and forth from normal human form to Thorn form; his powers only work in Thorn form.
-1: Perhaps Thorn’s most fearsome power is his ability to bring plants to life as fierce botanical monsters loyal to him.
-4: Chemical attacks based on herbicides and the like are particularly effective against Thorn.
-6: Thorn has a tendency to change from his human to his plant-man form involuntarily when under great stress.

