Background/History: The fourth of eight sons born to a poor St. Louis bricklayer and his wife, Rob Bleskind grew up having to struggle for everything he got. He fought against his brothers to prove he was tough, he beat up neighborhood kids and stole their lunch money, he worked hard at a string of menial jobs to help put food on the family table. His parents taught him to stick up for himself; no one else was ever going to help or protect him.
But Rob wasn’t just a brute, he was actually pretty smart — so smart he earned a full scholar- ship to the new Millennium City University. He planned to study geology and become one of those high-paid petrochemical engineers he’d heard about. He headed off to MCU full of ambition.
During his second day of classes, he met another student, Steve Maxwell. The two became rivals almost immediately; somehow they really got on each others nerves. Maxwell was just as competitive and smart as he was. More than a few fistfights occurred between them over the next few years.
When MCU was allowed to examine frag- ments of a strange meteorite that had landed in Kentucky, Rob was thrilled to be asked to partici- pate. His enthusiasm only dimmed a little when he found out Maxwell was working on the project, too. It was all the two of them could do to be civil to each other when the professors were around.
And then the professors left the room for a minute to get some equipment. What happened next is a matter of debate. Bleskind has always blamed Maxwell, claiming he began an unauthor- ized test with equipment he didn’t really know how to use. But it could be that they got into a fight and knocked something over. Or maybe they didn’t do anything. But what happened is incon- trovertible: the meteor exploded, blasting them both with tiny particles and fragments of kelva- rite. Bleskind, being closer to the meteor when the disaster occurred, was bombarded with more kelvarite than Maxwell.
When he awakened in a hospital bed, Bleskind felt sick and weak. That changed; he healed with incredible speed, and soon realized the explosion had changed him somehow. When he accidentally bent the metal rail on his hospital bed, he discov- ered he was much stronger than a normal human. When he was brushing his teeth one day and his hand started moving so fast he could barely see
it, he found out he was also a lot faster than any ordinary person.
A little practice late at night when no one was around to see was all it took to sound out the extent of his superpowers. He could run faster than an express train and lift small cars without much effort. Soon his mind went from thinking, “Wow, this is incredible!” to wondering, “How can I make money with this?”.

Well, he knew lesson number one — grab all you can get for yourself, ’cause no one’s going to help you but you. He was never much of a one for following all the rules anyway. He’d rather make money as a supervillain than risk his neck as an unthanked, unrewarded superhero.
It wasn’t long before he quit college and became a full-time supervillain. Not knowing there was already a super-criminal named Thunderbolt, he chose that name for himself, since it was perfect for his combination of strength and speed. Since then, he’s worked on his own, for VIPER, and with many other villains, and he doesn’t intend to get off the gravy train anytime soon.
Personality/Motivation: Thunderbolt’s personality could be the textbook definition of “self-centered.” With him, everything is about me, me, me. His needs, wants, and desires, no matter how trivial, are always more important than anyone else’s. His opinions are correct, and anyone who disagrees with him is wrong, and stupid. Anyone who’s not tough enough to stop him deserves to get flattened and have his stuff taken away. Thunderbolt gets along really well with people who kow-tow to him (sycophantic waiters, call girls, toadies), and not so much with everyone else. A lot of master villains would rather not work with him; he’s too much trouble to cope with.
Quote: “I’m faster than a bullet — and I hit harder, too.”
Powers/Tactics: Thunderbolt is a brick-speedster, able to combine his swiftness and his super- strength for devastating attacks. He particularly enjoys Move Throughs (16d6 damage!), and
uses his Combat Skill Levels for offense when performing one. Grab Bys to snatch Accessible Foci are another favorite tactic. Given his high SPD, he can often afford to spend the time to Haymaker.
Unfortunately, Thunderbolt suffers from
many of the common problems experienced by superhumans with kelvarite-derived powers. The minute bits of the mineral embedded in his body make him experience pain when he’s exposed
to larger chunks of kelvarite, or when someone uses earth manipulation powers on him. He also suffers a greater than normal degree of effect from electrical attacks, or powers that sap his strength, stamina, or other qualities (i.e., Drains).
Campaign Use: Thunderbolt is a good member for impromptu superteams or groups of super- mercenaries hired by master villains (though his selfish attitude may cause problems). His powers give him a lot of combat flexibility, making him a useful addition to many villain teams.


If Thunderbolt isn’t tough enough to chal- lenge your PCs, you have several options for “powering him up.” First, increase his STR; that way he doesn’t have to depend so much on his movement. Second, give him some CSLs with Move Through and extra defenses that only apply against Move Throughs, so he can start slamming into his opponents without much difficulty. Third, give him some brick or speedster tricks that don’t necessarily involve hitting people hard. If he’s too tough for your campaign, decrease his velocity, SPD, and/or STR until he’s more in line with your standard villains.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Thunder- bolt and Tachyon have been bitter rivals since their college days. They remain adversarial today, though no one else in the Superhuman World knows why. Each of them knows the other’s Secret Identity but doesn’t reveal it to the world for fear of having his own secret exposed.
Thunderbolt I, of the Ultimates, has a deep and abiding loathing of Thunderbolt II, whom he regards as having “stolen” his name. They have yet to meet, but when they do, sparks will fly... literally.
Appearance: Thunderbolt’s costume has red flared boots, blue legs and stomach, red arms and shoul- ders (with the red on the upper chest in a reverse chevron pattern), and blue flared gloves. His red helmet and blue shoulder pads are designed to help protect him from the impact of running
into targets. He wears no mask, only blue-tinted goggles.

THUNDERBOLT FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Thunderbolt if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Thunderbolt is a super-strong speedster villain who can run at speeds of up to approxi- mately 150 miles per hour.
-6: Exposure to kelvarite causes Thunderbolt intense pain; his powers may derive from contact with the strange alien mineral.
-8: The use of Earth/Stone powers near Thunder- bolt also causes him intense pain, perhaps for the same reason. Electricity attacks and Drains of any sort are highly effective against him due to his speeded-up metabolism.
-10: His Secret Identity is Rob Bleskind; he used to be a Millennium City University graduate student.

Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
40 STR 27 DEX 30 CON 18 INT 10 EGO 20 PRE
30
34 14-
Lift 6,400 kg; 8d6 HTH damage [4]
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack 4d6
Phases:2,3,5,6,8,9,11,12 Total: 20 PD (20 rPD)
Total: 20 PD (20 rPD)
Total Characteristics Cost: 296
50m 16m
9 OCV 30 9 DCV 30
3 OMCV
3 DMCV 0
8 SPD 20 PD
60
18
20 ED
14 REC 10 60END 8 15 BODY 5 50 STUN 15
Movement: Running: Leaping:
Cost Powers
END
0 2
1 0
20 8
15-
10
13-
18
13- 0 11-
0
17-
20 Toughness: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 20 PD/20 ED 47 Superspeed: Running +38m (50m total)
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
6 Strong Leaper: Leaping +12m (16m forward,
8m upward)
7 Sleeve Radio: HRRP (Radio Group)
IIF (-1⁄4), Affected As Sight And Hearing Groups As Well As Radio Group (-1⁄2)
Perks
2 Contact: fence 11-
7 Contact: Millennium City VIPER Nest Leader 11-
(extremely useful Skills and resources, access to major institutions, significant Contacts of his own)
Skills
24 +3 HTH
4 +2 with Running
3 Computer Programming 13- 3 Electronics 13-
3 CK: Millennium City 13-
2 KS: History 11-
2 KS: Millennium City University 11- 1 KS: The Superhuman World 8-
3 Persuasion 13-
3 PS: Geologist 13-
3 SS: Geology 13-
3 Stealth 14-
3 Streetwise 13-
1 Systems Operation 8- Total Powers & Skills Cost: 147 Total Cost: 443


400 Matching Complications (75)
10 DNPC: Aileen Mitchell (girlfriend) (Infrequently, Normal) 20 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 15 Hunted: California Patrol (Infrequently, Mo Pow, Capture) 15 Psychological Complication: Selfish And Amoral
(Common, Strong)
5 Rivalry: Professional (with Tachyon; Rival Is Aware Of
Rivalry)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Rob Bleskind)
(Frequently, Major)
15 Susceptibility: to kelvarite, takes 1d6 damage per Phase
(Uncommon)
15 Susceptibility: to earth control/manipulation powers,
takes 1d6 damage per Phase (Uncommon)
10 Vulnerability: 11⁄2 x Effect from Drains (Common) 30 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Electrical attacks (Very
Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 43
Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
40 STR 27 DEX 30 CON 18 INT 10 EGO 20 PRE
30
34 14-
Lift 6,400 kg; 8d6 HTH damage [4]
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack 4d6
Phases:2,3,5,6,8,9,11,12 Total: 20 PD (20 rPD)
Total: 20 PD (20 rPD)
Total Characteristics Cost: 296


