Appearance: Timelapse is a white male, 5’9” tall, with an athletic build, stylish dark hair, and prominent sideburns. (He doesn’t wear a mask.) His costume is mostly red, with some darker red sections and gold highlights; it has no sleeves and short gloves.
TIMELAPSE
Background/History: The personal history of
the supervillain known as Timelapse remains unknown. Based on comments he’s made, it seems that he’s from the distant future and has used his time-travel powers to return to the twenty-first century to “exploit the primitives of this period for my own personal gain.” Exactly what he means by “gain” is open to question, since he often seems more interested in killing or aging certain persons
Hero System 6th Edition
than stealing. Add to that the fact that Captain Chronos seems to pursue Timelapse obsessively and you’ve got a handful of facts that keep a lot of UNTIL and PRIMUS personnel very, very worried.
Personality/Motivation: Assuming Timelapse
is telling the truth about himself (which is a big assumption), the authorities believe that he wants to alter the timestream (and thus the course of the future, as twenty-first century humans perceive it) to benefit himself in some way. Maybe he intends to end up the richest man in the world, or the ruler of Earth; no one knows... except possibly
TIMeLaPse
Val Char Cost Roll Notes
Captain Chronos, and he’s not telling.
Cost Powers
210 Age Manipulation: Multipower, 210-point reserve 7f 1) Restore Youth/Inflict Aging:
Major Transform 8d6 (person into younger or older version of himself; heals via the application of any chronal manipulation power)
Improved Results Group (any age younger or older; +1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); All Or Nothing (-1⁄2), Limited Range (100m; -1⁄4), Limited Target (living beings; -1⁄4)
17f 2) Aging To Destruction: RKA 4d6
NND (defense is Life Support [Longevity]; +1),
Does BODY (+1), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); No Knockback (-1⁄4)
45 Time Shift Field: Resistant Protection (12 PD/12 ED) Hardened (+1⁄4)
77 Time Travel: Extra-Dimensional Movement (any date or place in time)
Talents
3 Timesense: Absolute Time Sense
Skills
15 +5 with Age Manipulation Multipower
3 Computer Programming 13- 8 KS: History 18-
3 SS: Physics 13-
3 SS: Temporal Physics 13-
3 Stealth 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 394 Total Cost: 570
400 Matching Complications (75)
END
0
0
0 8
10 STR 20 DEX 18 CON 20 INT 18 EGO 15 PRE
0 11- 20 13- 8 13- 10 13- 8 13- 5 12-
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 13- PRE Attack: 3d6
Phases:2,3,5,6,8,9,11,12 Total: 17 PD (12 rPD)
Total: 17 ED (12 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 176
12m
7 OCV 20 7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0
6 DMCV 8 SPD
9 60
5 PD
5 ED
6 REC 2
35END 3 10 BODY 0
30 STUN
Movement: Running:
3 3
5
15 Distinctive Features: discomfiting “aura” (Not Conceal- able; Noticed And Recognizable)
25 Hunted: the Time Elemental Entropus (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture/Kill)
20 Hunted: Captain Chronos (Very Frequently, As Pow, Capture)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
15 Psychological Complication: Greedy; Wants To Alter The Course Of History For His Own Gain (Common, Strong)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 170

Quote: “I have all the time in the world... but you,
303
I’m afraid, do not.”
Powers/Tactics: While Timelapse has the ability to travel in time just like Captain Chronos (and in fact seems to be able to do so on his own, without the need for technology), his time-manipulation powers are otherwise limited compared to the Captain’s. First and most importantly, he can change the flow of time around an individual
to make that person older or younger. Typically
he does this to age someone to the point where they’re likely to die in the near future, but at times he’s reduced targets to infancy or forced someone he didn’t like to relive adolescence. If he wants to, he can so rapidly age a person that the process simply kills the victim (and that particular form of attack also works on objects, whereas his normal age manipulation attack only affects living beings). Second, he can create a mild “time shift field” to protect himself from attacks.
Timelapse is not a stand-and-fight combatant. He prefers to appear out of nowhere, attack his target, and then vanish. This makes coming to grips with him extremely difficult. The odds are better on those rare occasions when he works as part of a team of supercriminals.
Campaign Use: Timelapse is full of plot seeds. Where’s he from, and what are his true goals? It’s entirely possible that he’s from the future like he says, though his story has some odd discrepancies. For example, if he does come from a future time period, why isn’t he carrying technological devices from his native era, which would almost certainly give him a tremendous advantage over twenty-first century humans?
To make Timelapse a tougher opponent for your heroes, give him a handful of other time- manipulation attacks and powers (see the “Time Powers” sections of Champions Powers for many possibilities). That way he’s not quite so much a one-trick pony. To weaken him, reduce his SPD to 6, and perhaps reduce the dice in his Transform and remove the All Or Nothing Limitation so that he has to spend several Phases to age someone in full.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Timelapse doesn’t seem to associate with other villains, at least not on any sort of regular and permanent basis. Captain Chronos (page 66) keeps as close an eye on him as he can in case he has to step in to stop Timelapse from disrupting the timestream.

TIMELAPSE FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Timelapse if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Timelapse is a time-traveling supervillain who claims to have returned to the twenty-first century from the future to exploit “primitive early humans.” He has the power to age or “youthen” people or objects, even to the point they crumble to dust. Other than those basic facts, almost nothing is known about him.

