Background/History: Zaid Kahil bin-Mahmoud was raised in Iraq by a loyal Ba’ath Party family that held a high position in the Saddam Hussein government. After finishing school he joined the military, and his induction medical exam showed that his biochemistry fit the profile of poten-
tial subjects for a superhuman-soldier program being jointly developed by Iraq and Awad. When ordered to report to the laboratory, he did so gladly, ever eager to serve.
Months of agonizing tests and procedures followed, but in 1995 the program achieved its one and only success with him. He emerged from the lab tall, immensely strong, and resistant to most forms of injury (though the process left him badly scarred). Impressed with what he saw, Saddam Hussein made bin-Mahmoud his personal body- guard, christening him Turs al-Sh’ab (“the Shield of the People”).
When Hussein’s regime fell in the Iraq War, al-Sh’ab fled into hiding with Hussein. Unfortu- nately for the one-time president, but fortunately for al’Sh’ab, he was elsewhere when American forces found and captured Hussein in December 2003. He spent the next several years on the run, hiding from the Americans and their allies (often in Syria) and earning money as a mercenary supervillain. Eventually he developed enough of
a “support network” of hideouts and potential employers both in the Middle East and outside the region that he stopped worrying about the United States and settled down to a life of vicious villainy.
Personality/Motivation: Turs al-Sh’ab isn’t a complex person. He’s a bully and sadist who deeply enjoyed being so near the top of the Iraqi government because it gave him the political influence to match his physical muscle. Many an Iraqi political dissident spent his last few moments of life in agonizing pain as Turs al-Sh’ab beat him to death or literally ripped him limb from limb. He’s hoping to find another employer who’ll
offer him similar opportunities for “recreation”; in the meantime he satisfies himself beating up superheroes.
Quote: “Ha! What a weakling. I will enjoy killing you.”
Powers/Tactics: Turs al-Sh’ab is mostly a straight- forward brick, but he’s got a few abilities that make him more of a threat than your average strongman. First, he’s skilled at finding the weak points in an opponent’s defenses and exploiting them. He lacks the raw STR of an Ironclad or Durak, much less Grond, but a character who only gets to apply half his defenses after Turs al-Sh’ab uses Streetfighter’s Eye on him probably won’t appreciate the difference much. Second, he’s developed a special “crushing grip” move that lets him squeeze the life out of nearly anyone, even powered armor wearers and malleable-bodied metamorphs; the only protection against his grip is a force-field.

Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
35 Indestructible: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 35 PD/35 ED 0 8 Tough Guy: Life Support (Immunity: all terrestrial
poisons and chemical warfare agents; Safe Environ-
ments: High Pressure, Low Pressure/Vacuum) 0 18 Strong Legs: Leaping +36m (40m forward,
20m upward) 2 16 Fast Healer: Regeneration (1 BODY per Turn) 0
Perks
9 Contact: former members of the Iraqi government 12- (Organization)
Skills
32 +4 HTH
3 Breakfall 12-
3 Climbing 12-
3 Combat Driving 12-
3 Concealment 11-
2 Gambling (Dice Games) 11-
1 High Society 8-
7 Interrogation 15-
2 AK: Syria 11-
2 AK: Iraq 11-
2 KS: The Former Iraqi Military 11-
10 7 OCV 20
11- 13-
35 PD
35 ED
20 REC 60END 8 22 BODY 12 60 STUN 20
Movement: Running: Leaping:
Cost Powers
33 33 16
0
1 11-
19-
52 Crushing Grip: RKA 2d6
No Normal Defense (defense is PD Resistant Protec-
tion defined as a force-field, or the like; +1), Does
BODY (+1), Constant (+1⁄2); Must Follow Grab (-1⁄2), 1 No Range (-1⁄2) 1
17 Streetfighter’s Eye: Armor Piercing (x2; +1⁄2) 3
for up to 50 STR Requires A PER Roll (-1⁄2)
2
Language: Armenian (basic conversation; Arabic is Native) Language: English (basic conversation)
Mechanics 11-
END
10
2 Navigation (Land) 11-
3 PS: Bodyguard 12-
3 Streetwise 13-
2 Survival (Desert) 11-
4 TF: Equines, Large Motorized Ground Vehicles, Tracked
Military Vehicles, Wheeled Military Vehicles 2 WF: Small Arms
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 236 Total Cost: 514
400 Matching Complications (75)
10 Distinctive Features: badly scarred (Noticed And Recog- nizable; Concealable With Effort)
15 Enraged: when his honor or manhood is insulted (Common), go 11-, recover 14-
30 Hunted: US Military (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 25 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Sadistic And Brutal (Very
Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Overconfidence (Common,
Strong)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Zaid Kahil bin-
Mahmoud) (Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 114

Campaign Use: Every game needs a few utterly evil, totally irredeemable opponents, and Turs al-Sh’ab fills one of those slots in the Champions Universe. Sadistic, vicious, lecherous, sexist, racist, and ruthless, he has no good qualities at all. Player Characters should learn to love smashing him into defeat.
To make Turs al-Sh’ab more powerful, increase his STR (and, if necessary, his defenses). A few more “brick tricks” or a point of SPD would also ratchet up his deadliness. To make him less effec- tive, remove his treetfighter’s Eye.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Turs al-Sh’ab would like to go back to the “glory days” of being a bodyguard to a powerful man — a job that brings wealth and privilege as well as excitement. Slun and Joseph Otanga are both on his “ask for a job if I ever get the chance” list.
Appearance: Turs al-Sh’ab wears a variation of the standard Iraqi military fatigues. His longsleeve shirt and pants are light tan with faded camouflage markings. On his feet he wears black canvas ankle boots and atop his head there’s a black beret. The upper left side of his chest is covered with ribbons and medals. His left eye has a scar that runs above and below the socket and pulls the skin slightly out of shape — he frequently hides his eyes behind a pair of sunglasses. Large scars cover many
other parts of his body as well. He has a thick but carefully-trimmed mustache and fairly dark skin.


TURS AL-SH’AB FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Turs al-Sh’ab if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Turs al-Sh’ab (“Shield of the People”) is a super-strong Iraqi supervillain noted for his viciousness and sadism.
K/R: His real name is Zaid Kahil bin-Mahmoud; he was once Saddam Hussein’s personal bodyguard. Among his many brutal crimes, he’s most infamous for murdering the American superhero Janissary
in 2005.
-1: Turs al-Sh’ab is most active in the Middle East and surrounding regions; as far as anyone knows he’s never been to North or South America.
-2: Turs al-Sh’ab is skilled at analyzing an oppo- nent and finding his weak spots so he can deliver devastatingly effective punches to them.
-4: One of Turs al-Sh’ab’s deadliest moves is to Grab an opponent and administer a lethal crush. He’s so good at it even powered armor doesn’t protect against it; the only thing that can save a victim is a force-field.

