Background/History: Leonard Winston was a
top Air Force combat pilot — the one the brass called on to test all the latest designs and classified projects. Brash and outgoing, he was a poor choice for top secret work when it came to security concerns... but he got away with his attitude and lax approach to discipline because there was no one who could fly planes the way he could.
During one particularly tricky test flight, Winston encountered an unexpected stormfront — one that had come seemingly out of nowhere, developing with such speed he couldn’t avoid
it. Before he knew it he was in the thick of the clouds and battling the bucking winds for his life. Suddenly his whole world came apart in a blinding flare of light, power, and pain.
The Air Force lost Winston on its radar shortly after he entered the clouds, and when even his static-filled radio transmissions ceased and the plane didn’t re-appear, it sent out search parties
to look for the wreckage. Eventually it found the debris from the plane... but no Winston. Utterly baffled by the situation, the USAF wrote him off as “missing in action and presumed dead.”
But unfortunately for America and the world, he wasn’t dead. A few days later an ultra-fast flying supervillain, one of the swiftest ever recorded, committed over a dozen crimes in the Chicago area... in the space of about five seconds. He
called himself Vector and wore a costume, but
an advanced bank security camera got a good enough shot of him for the authorities to identify him as Leonard Winston. That wasn’t enough for either PRIMUS or UNTIL to catch him, though — he’s too quick for that. Ever since then he’s
been a major thorn in the side of the law, having committed dozens of crimes and gotten away scot-free, and perhaps dozens more no one knows about because he moves so quickly. Some officials consider him a major threat to world security due to his power level, though he has yet to show an interest in anything beyond ordinary crime.
Personality/Motivation: Vector’s always been flamboyant — a showoff and thrillseeker with a justified confidence in his abilities. Becoming a superhuman has only made this tendency worse, particularly when he’s around other speedsters; many villains don’t like to work with him because they either (a) find his constant boasting and showing off annoying, (b) fear that his unprofes- sional attitude and conduct will compromise the job, or (c) both.
Since gaining his powers, Vector’s also become a lot more self-centered, to the point of aban- doning allies who need help because helping them would inconvenience him or expose him
to capture. He can act like a normal guy when
he has to, and sometimes he even wants to, but when it comes right down to it all he cares about is himself.
But the accident that turned Leonard Winston into Vector did more than just exacerbate existing
personality traits. It also made him edgy and paranoid — fearful that people are spying on him, out to get him, or hiding things from him. For example, it’s commonly believed that he got his powers when the experimental plane he was flying was struck by a particularly powerful lightning bolt, and some analyses of data gathered on him remotely tend to support that theory. Vector used to believe it too, but in recent years he’s begun
to wonder. Could a simple lightning bolt really change him that way? And that storm came up on him really sudden. Could it have been... aliens? Is he a guinea pig for some experimental alien ray? If so, which aliens was it, and what do they really want with him? Thoughts like this often keep him up at night.
Quote: “Oh, sure, I do that and then you hit me from behind. You’re going to have to think faster than that to catch the fastest man alive!”
Powers/Tactics: Capable of attaining speeds of nearly 2,000 miles per hour under combat condi- tions, and up to about 56,000 miles per hour when he wants to really move, Vector is one of the fastest beings on the planet — and he knows it. He takes full advantage of his speed in combat by running rings around his foes to show just how good he is. He likes to start with a flashy but not overly effec- tive attack, such as a Multiple Move By powerful enough to Stun but not Knock Out his enemies. He follows that up with a Presence Attack, and
if he still encounters resistance he opens up with everything he’s got.
Vector burns END at a high rate — even if he does nothing but move every Phase, he spends 60 END a Turn — so keep a careful eye on his END. He often uses a Phase or two every Turn, espe- cially in Segments 9 and 11, to take a Recovery. If he can, he buys the Speedster Tricks in his Power Pool with Reduced END to further cut down on END usage. (See the “Speedster Powers” section of Champions Powers for plenty of abilities Vector can buy with his VPP.)
Vector often uses his Flight to mimic Running — he moves along the ground in such a way that it looks like he’s using his legs to move. He particu- larly enjoys using this trick on people he’s never encountered before so he can see the looks on their faces when he suddenly soars into the sky.
Campaign Use: Vector is a classic speedster — incredibly fast and agile, highly experienced at using his super-speed in a wide variety of ways. He just flies instead of runs (most of the time). He should pose a challenge for your PCs all by himself (never mind when he’s part of a team); if he’s not that tough yet, beef him up until he is.
To make Vector more powerful, increase the size of his Variable Power Pool, increase his SPD right up to 12, give him more END or Combat Skill Levels, and/or let him buy some basic Speed Zone powers outside his VPP. To weaken him, reduce his VPP and SPD until he’s a tough speed- ster for your campaign, but not necessarily the toughest.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
Cost Powers END
20 STR 10 13- 36 DEX 52 16- 25 CON 15 14- 15 INT 5 12- 15 EGO 5 12- 20 PRE 10 13-
12 OCV 45 16 DCV 65 3 OMCV 0
Lift 400 kg; 4d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 2, 3, 4, 5,6,8,9,10,11,12 Total: 12 PD (12 rPD)
Total: 12 ED (12 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 354
165 Hyper-Flight: Multipower, 165-point reserve 13f 1) Super-Flight: Flight 60m, x16 Noncombat
No Turn Mode (+1⁄4), Usable Underwater (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
16f 2) Machspeed Flight: Flight 60m
MegaScale (1m = 1 km; +1), No Turn Mode (+1⁄4), Usable Underwater (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance
(1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
200 Speedster Tricks: Variable Power Pool, 120 Pool + 120 Control Cost
Powers Can Be Changed As A Zero-Phase Action (+1); Only For Speedster Tricks (-1⁄2)
12 Friction Resistance: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 12 PD/12 ED
Skills
20 +4 with Speedster Tricks Variable Power Pool 16 +2 HTH
3 Acrobatics 16-
3 Breakfall 16-
3 Combat Piloting 16-
3 KS: The Superhuman World 12-
2 KS: The US Air Force 11-
3 KS: World Aircraft 12-
21 Power: Speedster Tricks 25-
3 Stealth 16-
3 TF: Combat Aircraft, Large Planes, Small Planes Total Powers & Skills Cost: 486
Total Cost: 840
400 Matching Complications (75)
6 6
var 0
3 DMCV 10 SPD
0 80
12 PD
12 ED
20 REC 16 120 END 20 13 BODY 3 36 STUN 8
Movement: Running: Flight:
MegaFlight:
10 10
12m
60m
Up to 60 km/Phase
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: VIPER (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture/Kill) 15 Psychological Complication: Selfish; Looks Out For
Number One (Common, Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Paranoid (Common,
Strong)
15 Psychological Complication: Flamboyant Showoff
(Common, Strong)
5 Rivalry: Professional (with other speedsters, to prove
himself the fastest)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Leonard Winston)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 440

Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Vector rarely mingles with the Superhuman World; he doesn’t trust most other villains, and in any event doesn’t think he needs their help. Since he began to wonder what really happened to him up in that plane he’s become particularly leery of alien villains, or villains who are known to use alien technology.
Appearance: Leonard Winston is a black male who’s six feet tall and weighs about 220 pounds with a firm, muscular build. He’s bald and cleanshaven. As Vector he wears a skintight bodystocking in dull gold with no gloves. It ends at the neck, in turtleneck-like fashion; to conceal his identity he wears a sort of dull gold domino mask over his eyes. His boots have reinforced soles to withstand the friction he creates when he uses his flying powers to emulate running.

VECTOR FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Vector if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Vector is a speedster, possibly the fastest in the Champions Universe. In combat he usually limits himself to about 2,000 miles per hour, but if necessary he can attain speeds that experts estimate reach 56,000 mph!
K/R: His real name is Leonard Winston; he used to be an Air Force test pilot. Although he often simply runs along the ground, he can fly.
-2: Vector is a die-hard showoff, always looking to impress people with his powers and skill.

