Background/History: Gerald Snyder was an anthropology graduate student researching
a thesis on how different “primitive” peoples around the world related, socially and reli- giously, to animals. He was particularly interested in how people perceived and interacted with animals perceived by modern men as dangerous, disgusting, or troublesome (such as sharks, rats, bats, snakes, and some types of insects).
While researching the role of the bat in Meso- american culture, Snyder learned that a museum in Philadelphia had a small non-public collec- tion of artifacts related to that topic. He received permission to examine the collection. As he reviewed the artifacts, one in particular captured his attention — a large, beautifully-worked gold amulet or medallion depicting a bat or bat-god. As he examined it carefully, he was amazed to discover that it was actually some sort of locket;
it had a concealed compartment no modern man had ever known about! With trembling hands he carefully pried it open. As it opened, there was
a puff of dust that made him cough, and then... nothing. Whatever had been inside the locket had long ago crumbled into powder.
Or so he thought. That night his dreams were haunted by nightmare visions of himself as a man-bat hybrid monster, soaring over the city, catching people and eating them. In the morning he was terrified to read reports in the paper of a monster just like the one he’d imagined himself being! When it happened again the next couple of nights, he knew it wasn’t just a dream — somehow the amulet had put a curse on him, or the dust was a mystic poison, or something. The point was, apparently he was now some sort of were-bat.
Snyder returned home to Vibora Bay to figure out what to do. He was too scared to turn himself in to the authorities... and after a few weeks of living with the problem he realized he didn’t want to. He discovered he enjoyed being a humanoid bat, prowling the night, superior to all the humans he saw. After all, if a few homeless people became his prey, what was so wrong with that?
In time Snyder learned to control his trans- formations, so now he can become a monster whenever he likes. He thinks of himself as Vesper, the were-bat, though he’s never used that name in public. He hasn’t been seen or caught yet, but that’s just a matter of time.
Personality/Motivation: Gerald Snyder used to be an ordinary, law-abiding citizen, but the curse that made him Vesper gave him something of a bat’s predatory nature as well as a bat’s form. Like a bat he uses stealth and agility to hunt his prey... it’s just that he prefers to eat humans instead of insects.
Aside from the instinctual need to feed, Vesper’s main driving force is a fear of anything that can hurt him, particularly fire. He stays well away from things that are aflame, and will prob- ably flee from fire-using superhumans unless he’s ravenously hungry or trapped.

VESPER FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Vesper if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Vesper is a supervillain who’s half-man, half-bat. He can fly, has sharp fangs and claws, and can use sonar to “see” in the dark.
K/R: Vesper also has the ability to summon and control bats.
-1: Vesper’s been most active in the Vibora Bay area,
but has committed crimes in other cities and regions.
-6: There’s a slight mystic “tinge” to Vesper, as if his powers had a mystic source (though
they aren’t mystical themselves).
-10: His real name is Gerald Snyder; he used to be
an anthropology graduate student.
Val Char Cost Roll Notes
7 Terror Of The Night: +15 PRE 0 Only For Fear-/Intimidation-Based Presence Attacks (-1)
4 Tough Hide: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 4 PD/4 ED 0 24 Batwings: Flight 24m 1
Usable As Gliding (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Restrainable (-1⁄2)
15 Vesperine Sonar: Active Sonar 0 6 Vesperine Ears: +4 to PER Rolls with Hearing Group 0 12 Vesperine Ears: +4 versus Range Modifier with
Hearing Group 0
Skills
4 +2 OCV with Claws 4 +2 with Flight
3 Concealment 12-
2 CK: Vibora Bay 11-
7 Stealth 15-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 208 Total Cost: 384
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Enraged: when reduced to 6 BODY or lower (Uncommon), go 14-, recover 11-
20 Enraged: when hurt by fire (Uncommon), go 14-, recover 11-
20 Hunted: the Champions (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
9
30 STR 22 DEX 22 CON 13 INT 10 EGO 15 PRE
20 15- 24 13- 12 13-
3 12- 0 11- 5 12-
Lift 1,600 kg; 6d6 HTH damage [3]
8 OCV
8 DCV
3 OMCV 0 3 DMCV 0
4 SPD
20 Phases: 3, 6, 9, 12
25 25
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 3d6
12 PD
10 ED
10REC 6
45END 5
13 BODY 3
40 STUN 10 Total Characteristics Cost: 176
Movement: Running: Flight:
Cost Powers
12m 24m
10 Total: 12 PD (4 rPD) 8 Total: 10 ED (4 rED)
15 Claws: HKA 1d6 (3d6 with STR) 7 Fangs: HKA 1⁄2d6
No STR Bonus (-1⁄2)
78 Call To The Children Of The Night: Summon up to
1,000 bats built on up to 100 Total Points each
Slavishly Loyal (+1), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Arrives Under Own Power (-1⁄2), Summoned Being Must Inhabit Locale (-1⁄2)
END
1 1
20 Bat Control: Mind Control 12d6 (Animal class of minds) 6 Bats Only (-2)
20 Hunted: MCPD (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
10 Physical Complication: Affected By Mental Powers That
Affect Animal Class Of Minds As Well As Human Class
(Infrequently, Slightly Impairing)
15 Psychological Complication: Monstrous; Wants To Feed
On Humans (Common, Strong)
5 Psychological Complication: Pyrophobia (Uncommon,
Moderate)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Gerald Snyder)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 0

Quote: None. Vesper can barely speak, and prefers
not to; usually he just screeches.
Powers/Tactics: This character sheet represents Vesper in his humanoid bat form (his normal human form is a more or less ordinary scholar with a Multiform into this form). As a were-bat he has a bat’s hearing and sonar, bat-like claws and fangs, and leathery wings that allow him to fly. He can also mentally summon and command bats. (See HSB 421 for a character sheet for a typical bat.)
Vesper is a stalker and ambusher, not a warrior. He doesn’t like prolonged fights, especially when he’s outnumbered, and will probably flee if he can’t kill or disable his target quickly. He usually favors targets that can’t fly, since he can snatch them up into the air and drop them if necessary.
Campaign Use: Vesper is a relatively low-powered villain with plenty of plot potential. Among other things, there’s the question of whether he can be “cured” and returned to a normal life — deep down, Gerald Snyder doesn’t really like being a were-bat, he’s just totally lost control of himself.
If a way could be found to re-establish control, Vesper might cease to be a threat. Up to that point, he’d make a good ongoing rival for a hero of similar power.
To make Vesper tougher, increase his Charac- teristics, particularly CON, BODY, and SPD. To weaken him, remove his Combat Skill Levels with Claws.
Appearance: In his man-bat form, Vesper looks like a cross between a human male and a bat. His head becomes batlike, with a bat’s flat nose, sharp fangs, and large, pointed ears. His legs, toes, arms, and fingers elongate, and he has membraneous, leathery wings that stretch from his wrists to his ankles, allowing him to fly. His body is greyish in hue, with short fur all over and longer, darker fur around his waist and groin.
