Background/History: He’d had a good time, but at last it was all coming to an end. For all his tricks and guile, there was only one way to stay a step ahead of the Tel’narian Guard anymore — he had to leave this galaxy entirely. An old colleague of his had built the Transport Gate for him and supplied the technicians to run it; it would only work once — and just one way. But in a new home, he’d find new opportunities.
Suddenly the door was blasted off its hinges. “Freeze, Shamareeth!” Tayina Mathet Hoki yelled, her Thrombalic Blasts at the ready. “I arrest you in the name of the Republic!”
Shamareeth laughed. “Not this time, I think, Mathet. I have found a way to escape you and your foolish comrades forever. My only sadness is that I shall never again know the joy of tormenting you with your inability to stop me. Farewell!” With that he turned and headed straight for the archway.
“No!” Hoki shouted, swooping toward him with her Force-Flight. She grabbed him, intending to pull him back from the brink. With a snarl
of rage he tried to twist out of her grasp and hit her; he would not be cheated of his final triumph so easily! But he lost his footing on the slick
metal floor, and slipped, and suddenly they both plunged through the purple veil.
Colors, thousands of them, colliding in his brain. Sounds, a cacophony of them, shrieking in his ears. Dizziness, disorientation, nausea, pain. Then a tremendous impact, and nothing.
He awoke quickly; the technicians had warned him what to expect, so he’d been prepared. He stood up, looked at the Mathet lying there, and smiled. So she’d been dragged along, eh? Well, at least their game could continue without pause. Now it was time to find out more about his new home and the opportunities it offered. With a mocking salute to the still-unconscious Guards- woman, he ran off into the city.
Personality/Motivation: Lh’alsha, Che’na Wumar, known once as Shamareeth — or Vibron, to use the English name given him by the press soon after he first began committing crimes on Earth — is a superpowered criminal from the Andromeda Galaxy. Like many Human supercriminals, he’s greedy, self-centered, amoral, and annoying to
be around; he seems to think his powers (vibra- tory abilities gained when a super-weapon he was stealing exploded in his hands) set him above ordinary people.
Although Vibron has killed, and will kill again if he must, he takes little pleasure in it. He finds it a lot more fun to try to outwit or escape the police than to kill them, and with his speed and Vibro- Phasing ability he can lead them on a merry chase indeed. In the past he’s even waited at the scene
of the crime until the police (or superheroes) got close enough to see and pursue him before he started to run. He also enjoys harassing them in other ways, like vandalizing police cars while the officers are inspecting a crime scene.

VIBRON FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Vibron if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Vibron is
a supervillain
with vibration powers; he can fire vibratory blasts, vibrate his body to “phase”through walls or avoid attacks, and run at incredible speeds by “skating” on vibra- tory cushions of air.
K/R: His real name is Lh’alsha, Che’na Wumar; he’s an alien — a member of the T-ay’maar species from Andromeda Galaxy.
-1: The supervil- lain Nebula is a superpowered policewoman from the Andromeda Galaxy who came here at the same time Vibron did, and continues to pursue him.
-4: Vibron loves to outwit and outrun law enforcement and superheroes, so much that he sometimes waits at the scene of one of his crimes for them to arrive before he flees.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
Cost Powers END
20 STR 10 13- 29 DEX 38 15- 28 CON 18 15- 13 INT 3 12- 13 EGO 3 12- 20 PRE 10 13-
8 OCV 25 10 DCV 35
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
Lift 400 kg; 4d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 12- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 7,9,11,12 Total: 25 PD (15 rPD)
Total: 23 ED (15 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 234
40m
60 Vibro-Attacks: Multipower, 60-point reserve 6f 1) Focused Vibro-Blast: Blast 12d6
6f 2) Powerful Vibro-Blast: Blast 8d6
Double Knockback (+1⁄2) 4f 3) Vibro-Slicing: HKA 3d6
6 6
2
7 SPD 10 PD
8 ED
10 REC 55END 7 12 BODY 2
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); No STR Bonus (-1⁄2) 4f 4) Vibro-Punch: HA +8d6 2
Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); Hand-To-Hand Attack (-1⁄4)
3f 5) Vibro-Assault: Blast 6d6 6
NND (defense is PD Resistant Protection defined as a force-field or the like; +1); No Range (-1⁄2), Only Works On Grabbed Targets (-1⁄2)
45 Vibro-Field: Resistant Protection (15 PD/15 ED) 0 20 Vibro-Dodging: +8 DCV 8
Costs Endurance (-1⁄2), Increased Endurance Cost (x2 END; -1⁄2)
42 Vibro-Gliding: Running +28m (40m total) 0 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
32 Vibro-Phasing: Desolidification (affected by sonic, vibra- tory, or air attacks) 4 Concentration (1⁄2 DCV; -1⁄4)
Skills
10 +2 with Vibro-Attacks Multipower
3 Breakfall 15-
3 Climbing 15-
1 AK: Andromeda Galaxy 8-
3 Language: English (completely fluent; T-ay’maar is Native) 3 Stealth 15-
3 Streetwise 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 248
Total Cost: 482
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: Nebula (Frequently, As Pow, Capture)
10 Physical Complication: Knows Little Of Earth Culture
(Frequently, Slightly Impairing)
10 Physical Complication: Utterly Alien Physiology (-10
to all medical and related rolls to heal or help him)
(Infrequently, Slightly Impairing)
15 Psychological Complication: Loves To Outwit And
Harass Law Enforcement (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Public Identity (Lh’alsha, Che’na
Wumar) (Frequently, Major)
20 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Milky Way Galaxy Chemi-
cals/Gases/Poisons (Common)
Total Complications Points: 75 Experience Points: 82
40 STUN
Movement: Running:
50
10
8 6 6
Appearance: A member of the T-ay’maar species of the Andromeda Galaxy, Vibron has an obviously alien body, with a bullet-shaped head, pupilless eyes, grey-green skin, and almost no body hair. He wears
a blue-grey bodysuit with a stylized V emblem (added by one of his employers) on the left breast; the suit’s sleeves end at his wrists, leaving his hands uncovered. Even when he’s at rest, he vibrates slightly, making it difficult to discern his features; when he’s actively using his powers he’s an almost featureless blur. He doesn’t wear a mask.


Quote: “Time to — as you Humans say — shake
things up a bit!”
Powers/Tactics: A mutate from the Andromeda Galaxy, Vibron possesses the ability to vibrate his body at super-fast speeds, which gives him many powers. He can shoot blasts of “vibro-energy,” punch someone a hundred times in the blink of an eye, slice through objects or people the same way a sonic saw cuts through wood, or shake someone so quickly and thoroughly that dizziness and nausea cause the victim to pass out. He can also run at high speeds, “vibro-phase” his body through solid objects, or dodge so rapidly it’s virtually impossible to hit him.
Vibron prefers to keep moving during a battle, rarely standing still for more than one Phase. His Vibro-Blasts and Vibro-Assault are favorite attacks; he’ll save his HKA for times when nothing else works, or he needs to damage a nonliving object. He uses his Vibro-Punch in combination with Move Bys mostly. He’ll gladly Abort a Phase to Dodge or Dive For Cover if he can avoid getting hurt.
Campaign Use: Besides being a good general villain for use in a variety of scenarios, Vibron comes with two potential plot seeds. The first is his ongoing “battle” with Nebula, whom many heroes regard as a villain herself because of her harsh attitudes and methods of crimefighting. x
As a stranger to Earth, Vibron is still working his way into the underworld, building a reputation and earning favors by working for other villains, or with temporary villain teams. He’d like to join a permanent team, such as the Ultimates, but hasn’t gotten any invitations yet. But in the meantime, he can make good money through a combination of mercenary work and independent jobs.
If Vibron needs to be more powerful to fit into your campaign, increase his Multipower reserve
to 75 or 90 points (and the slots correspondingly), and/or up his defenses and SPD a little. making him weaker usually involves reducing his Multipower reserve and cutting his SPD down to 6.
Vibron isn’t interested in Hunting heroes right now; he’s got to establish himself first. He can pursue such luxuries later on.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Vibron of course has a pre-existing relationship with Mathet u-Vareeta Hoki, better known on Earth as Nebula (see page 218) — a highly adversarial one, to be sure, but a relationship nonetheless. He’s been escaping from her, mocking her, and committing crimes right under her nose for nearly two decades at this point and always enjoys yet another opportunity to make her miserable.
Vibron would like to join a permanent team, such as the Ultimates, but hasn’t gotten any invita- tions yet. Instead he makes his money through a combination of solo jobs, short-term partnerships, and mercenary villainy. He’s done quite a bit of work for VIPER, though he’s learned to avoid ARGENT for fear that they just want to study his alien biology. Enemies he’s made over the years include Frost (who’s snidely insulted him a few times) and Foxbat (whom he thinks is insulting him, somehow).

