Background/History: For the first time, everything was going perfectly in the life of Wayland Talos. Even though he was only in his early thirties,
he’d founded a freelance technology design and consulting firm that was thriving. A year ago he’d married the woman of his dreams — Maria, beau- tiful Maria, who could see past his scrawny frame to the heart within. He woke up looking forward to every new and wondrous day.
And then the superheroes came and ruined it all.
Maria worked as an administrative assistant in one of those big office buildings downtown — he could never remember which one. Unfortunately, it was the one a group of terrorists chose to invade and take hostage. The Justice Squadron responded, planning to end the standoff quickly... only to find the terrorists much better prepared, and much better armed, than expected.
The ensuing battle wrecked a huge section of the building, but only one life was lost — Maria’s. Heartbroken and in anguish, Talos was certain of one thing: if those “heroes” had just left well enough alone, his wife would still be alive.
Unable to stop bitterly brooding about the situation, Talos couldn’t concentrate on his work, and within a few months he’d lost all his contracts and his company — another thing to lay at the
feet of these so-called “heroes”! They didn’t care about people like him; they just stomped around, fighting, not caring who got hurt in the process. Determined to strike back at the heroes who’d hurt him, Talos began using his technological expertise to design weapons and equipment for criminals, even supercriminals — anyone who’d go up against superheroes and hurt them.
In July 1992, when he heard the news about
the Battle of Detroit, Talos rejoiced that so many heroes had died, not caring that sixty thousand other people lost their lives as well. For once, the heroes had gotten what was coming to them. But the idea of the Millennium Project incensed him. The touch of superheroes befouled the whole concept. It was their fault the city had to be rebuilt, their inspiration that gave rise to the whole “City of the Future” idea, their assistance that made it possible. The whole situation was intolerable.
Unwilling to let the heroes have free rein over an entire city, Talos packed up his shop and his few meager possessions and moved to Michigan. Soon the burgeoning Millennium City criminal element didn’t lack for equipment and high-tech weapons. Today, the underworld regards Talos as one of its best armorers, a man who helps it main- tain parity in the face of the MCPD’s MARS units and high-tech gadgetry.
Personality/Motivation: Consumed by bitter- ness, anger, and even subconscious guilt at not having protected his own wife, Wayland Talos has spent decades lashing out at the people he deems responsible for all the misery in his life: super- heroes, and by extension the public officials and authority figures who don’t stop them. But despite all his rationalizations, the truth is he’s a vicious, spiteful person who’s simply given in to an excuse to exercise his basest impulses. He likes poking society with a stick to watch it howl, and to see people suffer the kind of pain he’s suffered. Unable (or, more accurately, unwilling) to participate in the fun directly, he does so indirectly by supplying criminals and terrorists with weapons and techno- logical services. Every time he hears about a villain using one of his weapons to hurt someone, he smiles, briefly... and then gets back to work.
Quote: “It’s a simple problem, really. But I have just the weapon to solve it for you.”
Powers/Tactics: Wayland Talos is basically a coward; he doesn’t like pain, and doesn’t want
to fight anyone, superhuman or otherwise. He prefers to act from within the shadows and behind the scenes. But if forced into a confrontation, he usually has one or more disguised weapons on his person. He doesn’t like to carry guns, grenades, or other such ironmongery; he prefers the elegance of a blaster concealed in a piece of jewelry, or an invisibility field generator built seamlessly into his clothes.
Campaign Use: Wayland Talos gives you an easy way to provide criminals with the high-tech gadgets and weapons they need to commit their crimes. If the New Purple Gang needs a tunneling machine, Talos can build it; if VIPER wants to call in an outside consultant to improve its blasters, Talos is the man for the job.
Changing Talos’s power level typically involves altering his Gadget Pool: if you want him tougher, give him more points’ worth of gadgets; if you prefer to make him closer to a normal person, reduce the Pool to 30 or 20 points. You could also raise or lower his Skill rolls.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Wayland Talos’s income — and desire for revenge against superheroes — requires him to maintain lots
of connections with the villainous side of the Superhuman World. Villains he’s designed gear for include Ankylosaur, the Cahokian, Interface, Lazer, VIPER, and possibly Arachne, among others. On the other hand this also makes him a competitor (and thus enemy of) villains and orga- nizations that provide similar services, including Brainchild and ARGENT. (Having ARGENT as a mutual enemy might cause Talos and Interface to form a temporary alliance.)
Talos also designed Stiletto’s questionite daggers. Based on comments Talos has made, Stiletto once worked for him in some capacity, but no one in the underworld is clear on exactly what happened.

Appearance: Wayland Talos looks like a kindly old man — greying hair, glasses, wearing plain sweaters (and sometimes a lab coat or work apron) — until you look at his eyes. Cold and cruel, filled with a bitterness and pain he gladly inflicts on the world whenever he can, they disturb anyone who gazes into them. Although soft-spoken, he has a knack for filling his words with biting malice and uncomfortable implications.
EXAMPLE POWERS FOR GADGET POOL
Class Ring Blaster: This weapon looks like an ordinary class ring — large, gold, a little gaudy, with a bright red stone in the center. But it’s actu- ally a powerful blaster (albeit one with limited range and energy).
Blast 8d6 (40 Active Points); IIF (-1⁄4), Limited Range (40m; -1⁄4), 6 Charges (-3⁄4). Total cost: 18 points.
Anaesthetic Gas Button: One of the buttons on Talos’s labcoat or sweater sometimes conceals a short-range knockout gas projector.
Blast 4d6, NND (defense is Life Support [Self- Contained Breathing]; +1) (40 Active Points); IAF (-1⁄2), No Range (-1⁄2), 4 Charges (-1). Total cost: 13 points.
Invisibility Field: Circuitry woven into Talos’s clothes allows him to bend lightwaves around himself and become invisible for a short period of time.
Invisibility to Sight Group (20 Active Points); IIF (-1⁄4), 12 Charges (-1⁄4). Total cost: 13 points.
Protection Field: When superheroes threaten, Talos can activate this device, which projects an invisible defensive screen around his body.
Resistant Protection (12 PD/12 ED) (36 Active Points); IIF (-1⁄4), 12 Charges (-1⁄4). Total cost: 24 points.


WAYLAND TALOS FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Wayland Talos if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Wayland Talos is a skilled gadgeteer who supplies weapons and other equipment to the underworld.
-2: Talos is a coward and won’t fight... but he often has a concealed weapon or two on his person that he can use to surprise an unwary hero and make a getaway.
-10: Talos got involved in designing gadgets for the underworld after his wife, Maria, was killed in a super-battle.


Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
10 STR 12 DEX 15 CON 25 INT 18 EGO 20 PRE
0 4 5
15 8 10
11- 11- 12- 14- 13- 13-
Lift 100 kg; 2d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 14- PRE Attack: 4d6
Phases: 3, 6, 9, 12 Total: 10 PD (6 rPD)
Total: 11 ED (6 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 73
12m
3 Specs: Infrared Perception (Sight Group) 0 IAF (-1⁄2)
6 Wristwatch Communicator: HRRP 0 OIF (-1⁄2), Affected As Sight And Hearing Groups As
Well As Radio Group (-1⁄2)
Perks
30 Contacts: Well-Connected and 27 points’ worth throughout the underworld
10 Money: Wealthy
Talents
6 Combat Luck (3 PD/3 ED) 3 Lightning Calculator
3 Lightsleep
Skills
3 Bugging 14-
3 Computer Programming 14-
5 Cramming
3 Cryptography 14-
3 Deduction 14-
3 Demolitions 14-
3 Electronics 14-
6 Forgery (Documents, Money, Commercial Goods) 14- 3 High Society 13-
3 Inventor 14-
3 KS: The Superhuman World 14-
3 Lockpicking 11-
3 Mechanics 14-
3 Persuasion 13-
15 Power: Gadgeteering 20-
3 Security Systems 14-
3 Systems Operation 14-
9 Weaponsmith (all categories) 14-
3 Scientist
2 1) SS: Biology 14-
2 2) SS: Chemistry 14-
2 3) SS: Electronic Engineering 14-
2 4) SS: Mathematics 14-
2 5) SS: Metallurgy 14-
2 6) SS: Pharmacology/Toxicology 14-
2 7) SS: Physics 14-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 221
Total Cost: 294
400 Matching Complications (75)
20 Hunted: PRIMUS (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Bitter Hatred Of Superhe-
roes (Common, Total)
Total Complications Points: 60 Experience Points: 0
3 OCV 0 3 DCV 0 3 OMCV 0
3 DMCV 0
4 SPD 20
4 PD
5 ED
5 REC 1 30END 2 10 BODY 0
WAYLAND TALOS
26 STUN
Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
2 3
3
56 Gadget Pool: Variable Power Pool, 40 Pool + 40 Control Cost
Focus (all powers in Pool must have at least -1⁄4 worth of this Limitation; -1⁄4)
END
var
7 Bulletproof Clothing: Resistant Protection (3 PD/3 ED) 0 IIF (-1⁄4)
3 Specs: Nightvision 0 IAF (-1⁄2)

