Background/History: Lucas Kintebe was born into a poor family in Uganda. He began stealing almost as soon as he was old enough to walk, and by the time he was a teenager he was an accomplished thief. It wasn’t a very good living, though, and he constantly yearned for something better.
One day he got a tip from a friend about the security guard schedules at a local museum. Thinking this might be his big break, he planned carefully and slipped into the museum at just the right moment. He stole a bagful of the most valu- able, easily-carried art objects and treasures he could find, then made his escape.
When he examined his loot, one item — an amulet depicting the legendary white rhino, harbinger of good fortune — really intrigued him. On a lark, he put the amulet on. Without warning it began to tingle, and then it merged with his flesh, sinking into his body. He screamed and fell unconscious.
When he awakened, he wasn’t human anymore. He looked like some strange cross between a rhino and a man, with thick, knobbly whitish skin covering his body and two horns growing out of his head. One look at himself and he fainted dead away.
This time when he awoke, he was his old, normal self again. After a little bit of concentra- tion, he discovered he could change between one form and the other at will. And in his rhino-man form, he was super-strong! He spent the next week on a crime spree, smashing his way into banks and stores and taking all the money he could get his hands on...
...and then, just as he was planning another job, he got this strange feeling that something was wrong in the countryside to the north. Unable
to shake the feeling, he headed that way to find out what was going on. He discovered an unscru- pulous diamond mining company exploiting
its workers and polluting the river. Enraged, he transformed into his White Rhino form (as he now called it), smashed the company’s facility into rubble, and gave all the money and raw diamonds he found in the company’s safe to the workers.
Since then, the White Rhino’s led a sort of double existence. Most of the time he’s just a superpowered Lucas Kintebe, with all of his ordinary greed and criminal tendencies. But when a threat to central Africa or her people arises, he feels an irresistible compulsion to use his powers to help out and right the wrong, often playing “Robin Hood” in the process. He’s become a hero to many Africans, and a despised criminal to others.

Personality/Motivation: Gaining superpowers didn’t change Lucas Kintebe’s personality much. He’s greedy and cares nothing for laws or morals; if he wants something valuable, he finds a way
to take it. Becoming White Rhino allows him
to steal things he never could have before, and
he loves that. He usually works by himself, but
has no trouble teaming up with other villains or working for a master villain (provided they need some help in Africa — other than trips to Monster Island he generally doesn’t travel to other parts of the world). While he doesn’t mind a good fight, he’s not cruel or murderous, and won’t work with people who are overly violent.
But the White Rhino powers come with a solemn, unavoidable obligation to protect the central region of Africa (roughly, south of the Sahara to about the twelfth parallel below the equator). If something threatens the region, its people, or its environment, the mystic source of his powers compels him to investigate and resolve the situation. It doesn’t care how he resolves it,
as long as the threat vanishes. He’s tried to resist the compulsion a time or two, but has never succeeded. It’s reached the point where he sort of enjoys the accolades he receives for his heroic actions, so he doesn’t normally fight the mystic impulse anymore.
Quote: “I want that necklace, and you’re not gonna stop me. Comin’ through!”
Powers/Tactics: White Rhino isn’t exactly the world’s greatest tactician. He has two basic attacks: the Punch; and the Move Through (the latter usually involving his Burst Of Speed ability). Which one he uses typically depends on whether he’s in HTH Combat range with his target or
not. Sometimes he throws a Grab into the mix as well. A little bit of training with a skilled tacti- cian would expand his range of fighting skills considerably.
White Rhino possesses a few abilities most bricks don’t because of his role as the protector
of central Africa. He can sense danger to the area (or large numbers of people within it), and has
a certain degree of resistance to mystic attacks (and related powers). Most importantly, the fates watch out for him; the GM should make frequent use of his Luck (though the GM should consider removing a die or two of Luck when White Rhino’s outside of his home territory). Furthermore,
he has a good reputation among many central Africans and can often count on their help and support.
A few years ago White Rhino contacted
Dr. Phillippe Moreau to see if the infamous underworld scientist could augment his powers somehow. Moreau studied him intensively and finally devised a series of treatments that have significantly increased White Rhino’s strength. However, since the source of White Rhino’s powers is mystical, Dr. Moreau’s scientific methods aren’t entirely compatible. The treatments have to be renewed each week or White Rhino slowly but surely diminishes to his standard 50 STR.

Campaign Use: White Rhino presents an inter- esting contrast around which the GM can spin stories. By inclination he’s a thief and robber, more than willing to use his super-strength for personal gain. But he’s also central Africa’s protector. What happens when his two Psychological Complica- tions come into conflict? Is it possible to appeal to his better nature and turn him into a true hero?
To make White Rhino tougher, give him some “brick trick” powers and other abilities — or, to make him more distinctive, give him more mystic powers related to his role as protector of central Africa but which don’t necessarily have anything to do with being super-strong (for example, the ability to summon and control rhinos). To weaken him, reduce his defenses and other Characteristics a little.
White Rhino won’t Hunt characters normally; there’s no profit in it. However, if someone repeat- edly or persistently threatens central Africa, he may find himself compelled to pursue and destroy the wrongdoer.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: For the past couple years White Rhino’s been closely associated with Dr. Phillippe Moreau (see CV1). As discussed above, he went to Dr. Moreau for some help with his powers, and has ended up often working as Moreau’s bodyguard and general superpowered helper as a way of paying for the treatments. It’s been a profitable relationship for both of them and is likely to continue in the near future.
Aside from visits to Monster Island, White Rhino stays almost exclusively in central Africa, which limits the villains he can associate with. He’s helped VIPER with a scheme or two that haven’t been particularly exploitative of the region or
her people. On the other hand, his Danger Sense warns him against working for or with DEMON; in fact he usually tries to destroy DEMON’s plots and resources in central Africa when he can. Similarly, he has an uncomfortable feeling about Joseph Otanga — not enough of a one to move against him, but sufficient to keep him from working for the man.
Appearance: In his superhuman form, White Rhino resembles a cross between man and rhino: he stands on two massively-muscled legs and has two equally muscular arms, but his face is rhino- like and he has two horns (a large one in front, and a smaller one behind, like those of a rhino) projecting from his forehead. His skin is thick and knobbly like a rhino’s, but it’s got a distinctively pale, almost white, coloration (hence his name). He wears a sort of breechcloth-like garment around his waist, but no other clothes.
As Lucas Kintebe, White Rhino is a fairly handsome African black male of average height and a relatively muscular build (but not noticeably so). He wears the nicest clothing he can find and afford; his transformation from human into rhino- human form has an unfortunate tendency to tear apart whatever he’s wearing at the time.


WHITE RHINO FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about White Rhino if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: White Rhino
is a super-strong supervillain who looks like a human- rhinoceros cross; his ability to run into things and smash them to bits is one of his signature attacks.
K/R: White Rhino
is most active in central Africa, where he often functions less as a villain and more as the region’s general protector from any sort of threat, and a kind
of “Robin Hood” figure for the locals. In recent years he’s also spent a lot of time on Monster Island working for or with Dr. Phillippe Moreau.
-2: White Rhino loves a good fight, but he isn’t particu- larly violent, much less murderous.
-4: White Rhino has worked for VIPER occasionally in central Africa, but seems to be an enemy of DEMON.
-6: There’s a mystic “tinge” to White Rhino’s powers, and in fact he seems to have some protec- tion against arcane attacks.
-10: His Secret Identity is Lucas Kintebe; he used to be a thief in Uganda.

Val Char Cost
50 STR 22 DEX 35 CON 10 INT 10 EGO 20 PRE
Roll Notes
7 OCV 20 7 DCV 20 3 OMCV 0 5 DMCV 6
5 SPD 30 PD
30
28
30 ED
17 REC 13 70 END 10 20 BODY 10
40
24 13- 25 16-
10
28
0
0 11-
19- Lift 12.5 tons; 10d6 HTH damage [5]
11- PER Roll 11- 13- PRE Attack 4d6
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 30 PD (30 rPD)
Total: 30 PD (30 rPD)
Total Characteristics Cost: 285
62 STUN
Movement: Running: 24m
21
Leaping: 10m
Cost Powers END
15 Moreau-Enhanced Strength: +15 STR 1 Limited Power (needs weekly treatments from
Dr. Moreau or STR fades at the rate of 5 points
per week; -0)
20 Horns: HA +6d6 0 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Hand-To-Hand
Attack (-1⁄4), Only Works With Move Throughs (-1)
15 Toughness: Hardened (+1⁄4) for 30 PD/30 ED 0 37 Toughness: Resistant (+1⁄2) for 30 PD/30 ED 0
Hardened (+1⁄4)
24 Rhino Resilience: Knockback Resistance -24m 0 10 Mystic Protection: Mental Defense (10 points) 0 10 Mystic Protection: Power Defense (10 points) 0 19 Mystic Protection: Life Support (Self-Contained
Breathing; Safe Environment: High Pressure, High Radiation, Intense Cold, Intense Heat, Low Pressure/Vacuum)
12 Rhino’s Speed: Running +12m (24m total) 1 4 Burst Of Speed: Running +16m (40m total);
Increased Endurance Cost (x7 END; -3) 14 3 Strong Leaper: Leaping +6m (10m forward,
5m upward) 1 30 Luck Of The White Rhino: Luck 6d6 0
Perks
20 Contacts: Well-Connected and 17 points’ worth throughout Central Africa
2 Positive Reputation: protector of Central Africa and friend to its people (among some inhabitants of Central Africa) 11-, +2/+2d6
Talents
40 Protector Of Central Africa: Danger Sense (general area [central Africa], any danger, sense) 14-
Skills
24 +3 HTH
4 +2 OCV with Move Through
3 Climbing 13-
5 AK: Central Africa 14-
2 KS: African History 11-
2 KS: Central African Flora And Fauna 11-
1 Language: English (basic conversation; Swahili is Native) 9 Power: Brick Tricks 16- (DEX-Based)
3 Streetwise 13-
3 Trading 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 317
Total Cost: 602
400 Matching Complications (75)
15 Enraged: if takes BODY damage (or 30+ STUN in a single blow) (Uncommon), go 11-, recover 11-
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Hunted: VIPER (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Kill)
20 Psychological Complication: Must Protect Central Africa
(Common, Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Greedy (Common, Strong) 15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Lucas Kintebe)
(Frequently, Major)
Total Complications Points: 75