Background/History: Harvey Pepper was a chemical technician working for Regor, Inc., a subsidiary of Fordham ChemTech that manu- factured plastics. Unfortunately, he was often
a lot more interested in flirting with his female co-workers than in getting his job done, and he didn’t always pay as much attention to his work as he should have. One day, while he was chat- ting with Miranda from Sales, he accidentally mixed together two chemicals he shouldn’t have. The resulting explosion wasn’t strong enough to seriously hurt him, but it doused him with both chemicals and knock him flat on his back. Even worse, it weakened the supports holding up a nearby vat of semi-liquid plastic compound. The vat broke free, spilling the plastic all over Harvey.
Harvey was rushed to the hospital, where he soon seemed to make a full recovery. But a few weeks later, when he was at home and trying to grab something on the other side of the kitchen table, his arm actually elongated! He was so surprised he fainted dead away, waking up a few minutes later to find that his entire body had changed to some sort of stretched-out, plasticine form. It took him a little while and a lot of concen- tration, but he gradually forced his body back into its normal shape and consistency.

Val Char Cost Roll Notes
15 STR 5 12-
Lift 200 kg; 3d6 HTH damage [1]
PER Roll 12-
PRE Attack: 31⁄2d6
20 DEX 20 CON 13 INT 12 EGO 18 PRE
20 13- 10 13- 3 12- 2 11- 8 13-
7 OCV 20 7 DCV 20
3 OMCV 0
4 DMCV 3
30
13 Velocity Damage: HA +4d6 2 Always Direct (only works if ZigZag Stretches in
a straight line to the target; -1⁄4), Hand-To-Hand Attack (-1⁄4)
34 Bounced Attack: Reflection (60 Active Points’ worth) 6 Any Target (+1⁄2); Only Versus Physical Projectiles
(-1⁄4), Requires A DEX Roll (-1⁄2)
30 Resilient Body: Physical Damage Reduction,
Resistant, 50% 4 Costs Endurance (-1⁄2)
plus: Energy Damage Reduction, Resistant, 25% Costs Endurance (-1⁄2)
16 Flow Through Barriers: Desolidification (affected by
any attack) 4
Cannot Pass Through Solid Objects (-1⁄2), Does Not Protect Against Damage (-1)
8 Stretch-Running: Running +8m (20m total) 1 Perks
Money: Wealthy
Skills
9 Climbing 16-
2 KS: The Superhuman World 11-
Power: Stretching Tricks 16-
1 SS: Biology 8-
2 SS: Chemistry 11-
3 Stealth 13-
Total Powers & Skills Cost: 271 Total Cost: 427
400 Matching Complications (75)
25 Hunted: Champions (Frequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture) 20 Hunted: VIPER (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
20 Psychological Complication: Code Versus Killing
(Common, Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Loves To Trick, Fool, And
Belittle Others (Common, Strong)
15 Social Complication: Secret Identity (Harvey Pepper)
(Frequently, Major)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x STUN from Ice/Cold attacks
(Uncommon)
10 Vulnerability: 2 x BODY from Poisons (Uncommon) Total Complications Points: 75
Experience Points: 27
5 SPD 12 PD
Phases: 3, 5, 8, 10, 12 Total: 12 PD (0 rPD)
Total: 9 ED (0 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 156
20m
10 7 10REC 6 40END 4 10 BODY 0
9 ED 36 STUN
8 Movement: Running:
Cost Powers
END
50 Stretchable Body: Stretching 20m,
x16 body dimensions 2 Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
75 Elastic Body Weaponry: Multipower, 75-point reserve
2f 1) Wraparound: Entangle 5d6, 5 PD/5 ED 7
Backlash (+1⁄2); Feedback (ZigZag takes all damage
done to Entangle by anyone other than victim; -1),
Lockout (can only Entangle one person, and while 10 Entangling them cannot use any other Multipower
slot; -1⁄2), No Range (-1⁄2)
2f 2) Engulf: Entangle 6d6, 6 PD/6 ED, Stops Sight Group 7
Feedback (Zigzag takes all damage done to Entangle
by anyone other than victim; -1), Lockout (can 9
only Entangle one person, and while Entangling them cannot use any other Multipower slot; -1⁄2), No Range (-1⁄2)
2f 3) Big Spiky Fist: HA +3d6
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); Hand-To-Hand
Attack (-1⁄4)
3f 4) Spiky Body: RKA 11⁄2d6
Area Of Effect (personal Surface — Damage Shield; +1⁄4), Constant (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4); No Range (-1⁄2)

Over the long weekend, a little experimentation taught him how to control his body’s new property of malleability. He could squeeze underneath closed doors, reach out and grab objects sixty feet away, and do lots of other things. With powers like this, who needed those jerks at the plant? Now he could make some real money!
Personality/Motivation: Harvey Pepper has never exactly taken life very seriously, and being trans- formed into ZigZag has only made his lackadaisical attitude worse. He’d much rather joke around, play pranks on people, and mock other peoples’ efforts than actually do anything constructive. Only his desire to become rich has gotten him involved in supercrime at all. In combat he usually keeps up a non-stop routine of (often crude) jibes and insults, which sometimes prompts his foes to hit him with high-powered attacks just to shut him up.
Quote: “Hey, Duh-fender! Better not bring your girlfriends around to fight, or they’ll dump you for a real man — me!”
Powers/Tactics: ZigZag has the power to stretch and contort his entire body, which allows him to do many things. Besides the abilities mentioned above, he can make his hand into a big, spike- covered fist to smash heroes with, cover his entire body with spikes so that it’s not safe to grab him, or wrap enemies up in his own body (though the latter power sometimes exposes him to injury,
so he’s careful about when he uses it). Because he’s so flexible, it’s hard to hurt him; he can even “bounce” physical projectiles back at the person who threw them (or even at some other target, if he angles himself just right).
ZigZag’s most effective attacks are his Entan- gles, so he usually tries to support villains he teams up with by “wrapping up” a gadgeteer, martial artist, or someone else who probably can’t break free easily. Then he’ll use his Stretching to trip other opponents and the like.
Campaign Use: ZigZag is a mercenary villain who’ll likely earn your PCs’ wrath because of his non-stop insults and wisecracks. He’s not really dangerous, and in fact doesn’t really want to hurt anyone at all, but he can’t resist stealing things and mocking people (even people bigger and tougher than himself). He might make a good ally or member of GRAB, assuming the current members could learn to put up with him.
There are lots of possibilities if you want to make ZigZag tougher. Given the special effects of his powers, he could easily develop other abilities (see the “Stretching Powers” section of Champions Powers for lots of possibilities); alternately, he might improve some of the abilities he has now,
or increase the Multipower reserve and change
the slots to Multis so he can punch people while Entangling other people (that would require getting rid of the Lockout Limitation as well). If you need to weaken him instead, get rid of his Desolidification and Missile Deflection/Reflection, and reduce his Multipower to a 60 Active Point reserve and slots.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: ZigZag hires out his services to other villains, though he prefers only to work with villains who aren’t especially violent. He’s worked with groups like GRAB, Merc-Force 1, and the Ultimates in the past. On the other hand, VIPER hates ZigZag and won’t hire him anymore; in fact, it is looking to rid the world of him permanently. His wisecracks and flippant remarks have angered one too many Nest Leaders and Dragon Branch members.
ZigZag thinks that Black Diamond of GRAB is the hottest-looking villainess on the scene today and would definitely like to “get to know her better.”
Appearance: ZigZag is a black man with short dark hair and a matching short beard around
his chin and lips. In his normal form, he stands 5’11” tall, but at most times he uses his powers to distort his shape in some way, making it somewhat disturbing to look at him. His costume features a strange pattern of two-tone blue.

ZIGZAG FACTS
Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about ZigZag if they succeed with an appro- priate Skill Roll:
N/R: ZigZag is a supervillain with stretching powers. He’s also known for mocking and jibing at heroes as he fights them.
K/R: ZigZag’s most common attack is to wrap up a foe in his body so the target can’t move, then stretch out his arms to punch or trip other enemies.
-6: ZigZag’s bizarre metabolism is particularly susceptible to poisons.
-8: Ice/Cold attacks cause ZigZag intense pain.
-10: His Secret Identity is Harvey Pepper; he used to be a chemical technician.

