Background/History: Millennia ago, when the land of Lemuria sank beneath the waves, almost all the Lemurians drowned. The only survivors were the Mole Men, the Lemurians’ brutish servants who were used to living underground, and a few families of Lemurian nobility. Over the centuries, those noble families bred and inter- bred, maintaining the Lemurian traditions and preserving Lemurian lore as best they could. With no ruler able to control them, they plotted and schemed, each trying to acquire greater power for itself at the expense of its fellows.
Shortly after World War II, a daughter of one of the ancient and powerful noble houses gave birth to a son. Naming him Zorran, she schooled him in all the Lemurian arts, including magic.
The boy proved to have great talent for sorcerous pursuits, and soon was able to work magics greater than those of wizards many decades his senior.
As Zorran aged into adulthood, he developed
a particular affinity for the sorcerous engines, automata, constructs, furnaces, and machines so distinctive of Lemurian magic, earning the nick- name “the Artificer.”
One day, while exploring certain distant regions of Lemuria where no man had gone since the Sinking, Zorran chanced upon a small cavern, or chamber, that was once a wizard’s workroom. There he found a treasure beyond price — a frag- ment of Philosopher’s Stone, that most puissant of magical talismans, a thing the debased Lemurian sorcery of his day had long ago lost the secret of making. Taking care to conceal it from his rivals and enemies, he took it back to his laboratories
to study. He soon learned he could use it to work wondrous transformations. With a gesture and a thought, he could make the Stone turn a person into a statue, or a chair into a platter of food, or solid rock into ephemeral air. With a weapon like this, his family would reign supreme in Lemuria!
Unfortunately, he underestimated the strength and wisdom of his foes. When they saw the threat he and his house posed, they banded together to oppose him, and after several months of struggle defeated him utterly. Unwilling to keep such
a dangerous viper in their midst, but equally unwilling to slay one of noble blood, the other houses chose the only course open to them: exile.
With his Philosopher’s Stone in hand, and mighty mystic powers at his beck and call, Zorran now walks the wider world. His heart seethes with anger at the Lemurians. He has vowed to defeat them, whatever it takes, and to humble them before him. And after he conquers Lemuria, Earth shall be next.
Unfortunately for Zorran, there’s more to his story than even he knows. First, he is unaware of the fact that his “Philosopher’s Stone” is actually something far more powerful: it’s a fragment of the fuel core of the Mandragalore, a super-weapon the ancient Lemurians devised to destroy Arcadia, but which misfired and sunk Lemuria instead.

He’s already augmented the power of his Stone by fusing another piece of the Mandragalore to it — the “Abracadabra Wand” of the Silver Age super- villain called Presto Change-O. (If he ever learns about Alchemica [see page 6], he’ll try to obtain her Stone and fuse it to his as well.) Second, and worse, he doesn’t realize that the now-beleagured King Arvad of Lemuria knows what the Philoso- pher’s Stone is. Arvad orchestrated Zorran’s “exile” so that he would search for and find more fuel core fragments. Arvad has had seeking-spells placed on Zorran so he knows where the super- mage is at all times, and has tampered with his mind so that Zorran cannot harm him. Zorran knows that Arvad is up to something as far as he’s concerned, which is why he hasn’t declared his support for the King in the Lemurian civil war even though he’s far more sympathetic to Arvad’s views than Khusor’s — he doesn’t like the idea of going back to being a reptile (see CU 102).
Personality/Motivation: Zorran isn’t a psycho- logically complex villain. He wants power, and
he wants it now. He’s interested in both political power (over Lemurians and Humans) and mystical power; he’s not picky. He views himself as a sort of heir to the power of the ancient Lemurian kings, and he’s determined to have their throne for himself, too.
When roleplaying Zorran, try to get his air of “noble condescension” across to the players. The way he sees it, no one else is as good as he, and others should be grateful for any attention he pays them or help he provides. This attitude has not exactly endeared him to other villains with whom he’s worked, much less the heroes he’s fought. Getting him to “humble” himself and admit that he’s done something wrong, or to forgive an insult, is all but impossible.
Quote: “Fool! If you dare to oppose me, my magic will strike you down where you stand.”
Powers/Tactics: Zorran the Artificer is a Lemu- rian sorcerer of great mystic power. In addition
to the many spells he knows, he possesses two poweful magical artifacts. The first is a fragment of Philosopher’s Stone, with which he can literally transmute anything into anything else. The second is his Arcane Furnace Staff, which provides him with a variety of mystical powers. Furthermore,
as his title indicates, he’s also skilled at building Lemurian magical constructs and furnaces. His Inventor and Mechanics Skills are used for that work; he knows nothing about electronics, internal combustion engines, or the like.
In combat, Zorran prefers to take the high ground, either by flying or by teleporting to a location above the battlefield. Then he can use his Stone or spells to strike down his enemies. He’s also learned how to use his Desolidification, Invisibility, and Images to get into position to make a Surprise Move (or to escape). If he knows he’s about to enter battle, he’ll use Speed Of The Zephirim to raise his DEX first.

ZORRAN THE ARTIFICER FACTS

Here are some facts characters and NPCs might know about Zorran the Artificer if they succeed with an appropriate Skill Roll:
N/R: Zorran the Arti- ficer is a powerful super-mage. In addition to his spells, he wields two potent mystic weapons:
an Arcane Furnace Staff; and a Philoso- pher’s Stone that lets him transmute matter at will.
K/R: Zorran is a renegade Lemurian; he doesn’t seem to have taken sides in the current Lemurian civil war.
-1: As his sobriquet indicates, Zorran is skilled at creating Lemurian magicon- structs, golems, and similar weapons.
-4: Zorran’s demonic mask shields him from being blinded by bright flashes
of light and similar attacks.
-8: Exposure to silver causes Zorran intense pain.
-10: Zorran’s “Philosopher’s Stone” is actually
a fragment of the Mandragalore, the ancient Lemurian super-weapon. He’s not aware of this, though.


Zorran tailors his combat magic to suit his foe. Against bricks, he’ll use Suppress STR; against martial artists and speedsters, Mental Powers (no one can outrun or dodge the energies of the mind!); against energy projectors, gadgeteers, and other charac- ters he usually employs straightforward attacks like his Bolt Of Power or Gout Of Mageflame.
To keep themselves safe from Zorran,
his Lemurian enemies cursed him with a Susceptibility to silver. He dare not get too close to that metal, much less touch it, or he’ll suffer agonizing pain. He intends to find a way to break the curse (i.e., buy off the Complication), but so far all he’s been able to do is weaken it.
Campaign Use: Zorran the Artificer works well as a second-tier “master villain” for mystic-oriented scenarios where you don’t want to bring in demonic evil (such as Dark Seraph) or the likes of Takofanes and his undead armies. He’s the perfect evil wizard for plots involving naked greed, grabs for power, and the like, rather than attempts to exterminate humanity. To help him fill this role, you may need to give him other powers, such as the ability to Summon servants from beyond, or Lemurian magical engines and devices. A Variable Power Pool for Lemurian magiconstructs would cover a lot of these bases.
The best way to make Zorran more powerful is to give him some of the afore- mentioned magical engines and devices. A magical furnace to provide END for his spells when he’s near it, a talisman of protection, or a few Lemurian golems could significantly increase his power. If he’s already too strong, remove some of his Arts Arcane Multipower slots and reduce his SPD to 5.
Associates, Allies, And Adversaries: Zorran
has hired, partnered with, or worked for many different villains over the years, though he tends to favor other mystics and super-mages. Harpy and Morningstar have both been good employees or partners; on the other hand, his personality clashes with Esper, and he thinks Pulsar is an idiot. He has a healthy degree of respect for Dark Seraph, the Demonologist, Black Paladin, and Talisman, which they seem to share. The thinks most of the Vandaleurs and Sylvestris are igno- rant poseurs, though he doesn’t say so publicly
for fear of attracting unwanted attention from the few members of those families who aren’t. He’s avoided having anything to do with DEMON since the truth about it became known to the Mystic World, and usually snubs the Circle Of The Scarlet Moon as too weak and hidebound.
Appearance: Like other Lemurian nobles, Zorran is tall and handsome, superficially resembling Humans but with a distinctive pale color to his skin and hair (which he keeps relatively short). He wears wizard’s robes of purple, with a gold sash and gold high-collared cloak. He conceals the upper half of his face with an iron mask in the shape of a ram’s-horned demon’s head.
Zorran often carries his Arcane Furnace Staff, an enchanted item of great power referred to in some ancient Lemurian chronicles. The shaft
of the staff looks like three strands of dark iron braided together, and at its top there’s an octagonal cylinder standing upright. From the top of the cylinder the staff belches forth a sulfurous smoke, and sometimes a tiny burst of oddly-colored flame.

1⁄2)
Val Char Cost
Roll Notes
15 STR 22 DEX 25 CON 25 INT
24 EGO
25 PRE
5 24 15 15 14 15
12- 13- 14- 14- 14- 14-
Lift 200 kg; 3d6 HTH damage [2]
PER Roll 14- PRE Attack: 5d6
Phases: 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 Total: 28 PD (20 rPD)
Total: 32 ED (20 rED)
Total Characteristics Cost: 245
7 OCV 20
7 DCV 20
8 OMCV 15
8 DMCV 15
40
6 SPD 8 PD
6 10 10REC 6 70 END 10 15 BODY 5 40 STUN 10
12 ED
Movement: Running: Flight:
12m 40m 40m
Teleportation:
Cost Powers
END
[12] [2]
75 Philosopher’s Stone: Multipower, 150-point reserve All OAF (-1)
7f 1) Transmutation: Severe Transform 5d6 (anything into anything; heals back when touched by this or another Philosopher’s Stone)
Improved Result Group (anything; +1); OAF (-1), 12 Charges (-1⁄4)
3f 2) Burst Of Raw Power: Blast 20d6 OAF (-1), 2 Charges (-11⁄2)

52 Arcane Furnace Staff: Multipower, 105-point reserve All OAF (-1)
10v 1) Belching Smoke: Darkness to Sight Group
12m radius 0
Personal Immunity (+1⁄4), Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1)
10v 2) Arcane Shield: Barrier 8 PD/8 ED, 8 BODY (up to
12m long, 4m high, and 1⁄2m thick), Non-Anchored, Dismissable 0 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1)
9v 3) Gout Of Mageflame: RKA 3d6 9 Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), +3 Increased STUN Multiplier
(+3⁄4); OAF (-1)
8v 4) Arcane Pulse: Blast 8d6 10
Area Of Effect (16m Radius; +3⁄4), NND (defense is Power Defense; +1⁄2), Personal Immunity (+1⁄4); OAF (-1), No Range (-1⁄2)
9v 5) Lemurian Shackles: Entangle 6d6, 6 PD/6 ED 0 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2); OAF (-1)
8v 6) Flare Of Bright Flame: Sight Group Flash 10d6 10
Area Of Effect (16m Radius; +3⁄4), NND (defense is Power Defense; +0), Personal Immunity (+1⁄4); OAF (-1), No Range (-1⁄2)
100 Arts Arcane: Multipower, 100-point reserve
12v 1) Bolt Of Power: Blast 12d6 6 12v 2) The Livid Lightnings Of The Loyal Larethian:
RKA 2d6 2
Armor Piercing (+1⁄4), +2 Increased STUN Multiplier (+1⁄2), Reduced Endurance (1⁄2 END; +1⁄4)
12v 3) Iskari’s Invoked Iridescence: Sight and Hearing Group Flash 7d6 0 Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
12v 4) Iskari’s Invoked Imaginings: Sight, Hearing, Touch, and Smell/Taste Images, -3 to PER Rolls 6 Area Of Effect (16m Radius; +3⁄4)
12v 5) Spell Of Somnolence: Mental Blast 6d6 6 12v 6) Mind-Shackles: Mind Control 12d6 6 6v 7) Speed Of The Zephirim: Aid DEX 5d6 3 8v 8) Zorran’s Withering Weakness: Suppress STR 6d6 6
Costs Endurance (to maintain; -1⁄2)
12v 9) Wizard-Hand: Telekinesis (40 STR) 6 4f 10) Iskari’s Mantle Of Concealment: Invisibility to
Sight Group, No Fringe 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
6f 11) Ascension Of The Ætheric Form: Desolidification
(affected by magic attacks) 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
7v 12) A Simple Spell Of Protection: Life Support: Total 0 12v 13) Winds Of The Zephirim: Flight 40m 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)
12v 14) The Mageroad: Teleportation 40m 0
Reduced Endurance (0 END; +1⁄2)

60 Mantle Of Mastery: Resistant Protection (20 PD/20 ED) 0 15 Shield Of The Mind: Mental Defense (15 points) 0 15 Shield Of The Soul: Power Defense (15 points) 0 10 Demon’s-Head Mask: Sight Group Flash Defense
(15 points) 0 OIF (-1⁄2)
Perks
5 Fringe Benefit: Member of the Lemurian High Nobility 10 Money: Wealthy
Talents
35 Danger Sense (general area, any danger) 14- 5 Eidetic Memory
Skills
24 +3 with Ranged Attacks
3 High Society 14-
3 Inventor (see text) 14-
3 AK: Lemuria 14-
3 Mechanics (see text) 14- 3 Persuasion 14-
3 Power: Mystic Powers 14- 2 PS: Lemurian Sorcerer 11-
2 PS: Noble 11-
3 Stealth 13-
3 Scholar
2 1) KS: Arcane And Occult Lore 14-
2 2) KS: Demons 14-
2 3) KS: Lemurian History & Culture 14- 2 4) KS: Lemurian Magic
2 5) KS: The Mystic World 14-
1 6) KS: The Superhuman World 11- Total Powers & Skills Cost: 648
Total Cost: 893
400 Matching Complications (75)
10 Distinctive Features: Mystic Aura (Not Concealable; Always Noticed; Detectable Only With Unusual Senses)
20 Hunted: UNTIL (Infrequently, Mo Pow, NCI, Capture)
10 Hunted: Lemurian nobility (Infrequently, Mo Pow, Limited
Geographical Area, Kill)
20 Psychological Complication: Determined To Conquer
Lemuria And The World (Common, Total)
15 Psychological Complication: Noble Arrogance (Common,
Strong)
20 Susceptibility: to silver, 1d6 damage per Phase (Common) Total Complications Points: 75
Experience Points: 493

