Auntie Social
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Fair 4 Average 3 Good 5 Good 5 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Acting
Guns Expert Psychology Master
QUALITIES
Children Need Discipline!
Dear Aunt Sorcha
“Let’s see what you keep secret...”
POWERS
Blaster: Auntie Social totes a blaster rifle (or sometimes a more demure blaster pistol) able to do Good (5) blasting damage.
BACKGROUND
Ms. Socha Prath’s Overton Academy is one of the most prestigious private preparatory schools in the world. The brilliant Ms. Prath has run the school for as long as anyone can recall with a combination of efficiency and grace, and she turns out well-rounded, well-mannered students who go on to do great things. So it would indeed come as a shock to discover the Overton Academy is merely a blind, and the proper public persona of Ms. Socha Prath conceals one of the most devious criminal masterminds known.
In fact, the “Overturn Academy” (as it is called behind the scenes) is a means for Ms. Prath—or “Auntie Social” as her true students call her—to brainwash young minds, unleashing their darkest impulses and enslaving them to do her bidding. The real truth about Auntie Social depends on the type of game you’re running: she could be an alien (preparing for an invasion, perhaps), a demon, a robot, a sorceress, an immortal, or just what she appears: a vicious old woman with a keen and cunning mind.
Her sprawling Gothic style academy, located in the countryside, conceals a secret sub-basement where brainwashings are carried out and students undergo “special” training to allow them to carry out their missions for their dear Auntie Social. As headmistress, Ms. Prath plays the role of kindly matron to the hilt, up to and including offering guests tea, cookies, and various treats (any of which may contain potions, poisons, or drugs). She carries a blaster pistol in her beaded purse, which she’s quite capable of using, and she’s remarkably spry when there is a need.
Auntie Social’s schemes tend to involve Emotion Control and Mind Control techniques using her Amazing mastery of Psychology, coupled with various gadgets and serums. For example, she may influence her students to steal information or valuable from their influential and wealthy families without their knowledge, possibly including state secrets. Similarly, she might include brainwashing subliminals in online “tutoring” programs or turn her “kiddies” into part-time criminals for hire.
Auntie Social’s influence isn’t necessary limited to children, either. For example, the heroes might experience strange wish-fulfillment dreams of carrying out anti-social behavior: wrecking the car of somebody who cut them off in traffic, for example, or roughing up some criminal scum the law can’t touch. They are shocked and concerned when they discover the incidents they dreamed about appear to have actually happened! While the authorities are willing to give known and trusted heroes the benefit of the doubt, things don’t look good. What’s worse, whenever the heroes fall asleep, the “dark side” of their personality seems to take hold, causing them to act out repressed desires or impulses. The strange behavior is the result of a new brainwashing device of Auntie Social’s, keyed to particular subject’s brainwaves (perhaps previously scanned during a visit to her Academy). The heroes have to track down the device and put a stop to it before they fall under her evil influence permanently!