Harlequin
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Incredible 7 Fair 4 Fair 4 Fair 4 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Martial Arts
QUALITIES
Crazy Capering Jester
“Let’s put a little life into it!” Madly in Love with Columbina
POWERS
Irrepressible: Harlequin possesses Supreme (10) Regeneration and Immortality, able to recover from virtually any harm, and regaining 1 Stamina per page.
Not even death can put him down for more than a moment, and he often throws himself heedlessly into harm’s way because of it.
The Slapstick: Harlequin wields an enchanted wooden paddle, the Slapstick, which is capable of inflicting Fair (4) bashing damage in close combat. The Slapstick’s real power, however, is the ability to infuse inanimate objects with life and movement, an Amazing (8) Servant power, which Harlequin uses to “make friends” out of the various things around him. Favorite subjects include furniture, rugs, memorial statues, and lampposts, to name a few. The Slapstick is also able to animate objects on its own in order for them to help bring it back to Harlequin, if they are ever separated.
& Columbina
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Average 3 Incredible 7 Fair 4 Average 3 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Athletics
QUALITIES
Frequently Underestimated High-Spirited
Madly in Love with Harlequin
POWERS
Invulnerability: In spite of appearances, Columbina is both incredibly strong and has Incredible (7) Damage Resistance, which somehow extends to her (otherwise mundane) outfits.
BACKGROUND
Harlan Quincy always did as he was supposed to: he was quiet and polite, did well in school, and stayed out of trouble. He found his way into a good school, where he was painfully shy, but focused on his studies. He did his best to ignore the taunts of the popular kids and jocks all through high school and college, while secretly wanting to be one of them.
Wilhelmina “Mina” Collier was taught to be a proper young lady and, although she was expected to go to college, she was also expected to
P
join a sorority (as a “legacy” following her mother and aunt) and eventually find herself a good man from a proper family to marry. Everyone noticed and commented on how pretty she was, but never paid attention long enough to figure out that she was fairly smart, too.
It had to be fate that brought Harlan and Mina together when her sorority’s “brother” fraternity held their Rush Week. Nobody was more surprised than Harlan to receive an invite to rush the most exclusive frat on campus. It wasn’t until it was too late that he learned of their tradition of inviting one or two “scrubs” every year, ready-made targets they could put through grueling and humiliating hazings before rejecting them.
When Harlan met Mina, he fell in love immediately, and Mina found herself surprisingly taken with the shy and bookish young man, so much so that she tried to warn him. But he wouldn’t back down. Now he had a reason to hang in there. He wouldn’t give up. The paddle the brothers used to beat him had been with the frat for a very long time. Brought over from Europe, someone said, although it wasn’t clear who originally made it. Anyway, it was traditional. It also hurt, even through the haze of alcohol, and whatever else somebody had poured into the punch.
It was an accident, they later claimed. No one thought it would go so far or get so out of hand, and no one knew what to do when Harlan went into convulsions and stopped breathing. They dumped the body well away from the campus and the fraternity house, and agreed never to talk about it.
Nobody expected what happened next. The kids who were there that night talked about things coming to life and moving of their own accord late at night: curtains, furniture, statuary, paintings. They talked about the formerly shy nerd, clad in a colorful costume, reappearing at the frat house to take the paddle they’d used to beat him, about the woman who left with him, and the sound of his mocking laughter, a sound they would never forget.
Harlan Quincy and Mina Collier disappeared that night, never to be seen again, but it was not long thereafter that the costumed team of Harlequin and Columbina began blazing a trail of madcap mayhem across the area.
Harlequin is indeed irrepressible, apparently immortal or, at least, nothing puts him down for very long. His “Slapstick”—in addition to swatting at the exposed bottom of any available target—is magically capable of bringing objects to life with a touch and giving them the same madcap attitude as their animator. Columbina is graced with
considerable strength and toughness, far more than one might expect from a “mere slip of a girl” dressed in a maid’s outfit. The two of them are free, madly in love, and looking to infuse a little life into the world, while having some fun along the way.
The couple have a great deal of sympathy for the repressed and the outcast and a desire to tweak the noses of “proper” society. For example, having infiltrated a fabulous mansion disguised as a kid’s entertainment act, intending to rob the place, Harlequin and Columbina are quite taken with the birthday girl, Annette, who is far too sassy and independent for her extremely traditionalist parents, who want her to be a “proper little lady.” So they decide to take her along with the loot and make her a part of their crazy “family”. Annette’s parents are worried sick while the girl is torn between her newfound freedom with her “magical friends” and feeling homesick and a bit scared for just how crazy those newfound friends are.
The Kooky Couple of Crime often aim for high-class or theatrical targets, such as deciding to rob a museum of some antique theatrical items. The museum’s displays provide Harlequin with all manner of things to animate (up to and including giant dinosaur skeletons) and lots of big, heavy things for Columbina to pick up and swing or throw. To further complicate matters, the theft might be inspired or influenced by the Slapstick. Perhaps there are other mystical talismans connected to it? Part of a set with even greater powers? This is particularly good to either up the couple’s power, or to invest new allies for a team (see Fire & Ice for some options).
Eventually, Harlequin and Columbina are likely to have a crazy break-up fight, leading the Madcap Maid of Might to swear off “boys” and look for a little “girl power” for a while. She could end up recruiting her own all- female gang to go on a major crime spree, challenging the heroes (especially the male ones) to try and stop them. Most of the female villains in this book are Columbina’s potential teammates, particularly Amphora, Bombshell, Copy Cat, Corsair Queen, Fox, and Merry Widow. Of course, a despondent Harlequin still wants to win back his beloved Columbina’s attention and affections, after he’s done sulking—and committing crimes—with his own “gang” made up of animated objects he talks to like they’re going to start talking back....