Doctor Deimos
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Fair 4 Average 3 Good 5 Fair 4 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Mental Resistance
Power (Fear Control) Expert Psychology Master
QUALITIES
Master of Fear
Obsessed Psychologist “What is it you’re afraid of?”
POWERS
Armor: Doctor Deimos’s costume includes:
• Armor plating for Average (3) Damage Resistance.
• Weak (1) Super-Senses (Infrared Vision) and Life Support (toxins) in his mask and cowl.
• A voice distorter built into the collar of his cowl.
Fear Control: Doctor Deimos’s true power comes from the infrasonic emitters built into his costume, giving him Great (6) Emotion Control, limited solely to creating fear in any target within extended range of him. The infrasonic emissions affect any creature able to hear and bypass psionic Mind Shields (although not Mental Resistance). A major or massive success with Doctor Deimos’s Fear Control sometimes causes the victim to experience Great hallucinations, like the Illusion power.
BACKGROUND
Arthur Demeitros was a shy, bookish, and skittish boy, a natural target for bullies and childish taunts because he seemed to be afraid of nearly everything. Only his beloved books and solitary time spend in worlds of his own imagination saved Artie from complete despair, and he became more and more interested in both what drove people to behave as they did and in the notion of fear itself—as a motivator and the overriding emotion dominating his life.
Arthur studied psychology and went on to become a psychologist, specializing in hypnotherapy and the study of phobias. All during his academic training, and later in his practice, he remained fascinated with the study of the nature of fear and its effects on people. His academic and professional peers found Dr. Demeitros quiet and withdrawn, at best, creepy and overly interested in people’s deepest fears at worst.
It was in the instilling of fear in others that Demeitros found his own courage. He found experiments in terror exhilarating, filling him with strength and a sense of purpose. For the first time in his life, he felt powerful, and understood the motives of those who had tormented him with fear in his childhood. Fear was power! It was the prime motivating force in human behavior, and it became his focus, not only to understand the nature of fear, but to develop better and more effective ways to cultivate, create, and control it.
The deeper Demeitros went in his research, the more circumspect he had to become, as his experiments went right up to the edge of professional ethics and then stepped over it. He developed his initial infrasonic frequency emitters, capable of stimulating the brain’s fear- centers, and began the process of experimentation to refine them for range, effectiveness, and—most of all—precision, fine-tuning to select for specific kinds and flavors of fear.
Convinced it was the apparently bravest and strongest people who were the most driven by internal fears, and in need of further opportunities to test his technology, the obsessed psychologist created and adopted the masked and cowled identity of Doctor Deimos, named for the ancient Greek god of terror. This allowed him to focus on costumed superheroes, the very epitome of stalwarts driven by complex fears and psychological issues. He would learn what they feared and, in so doing, would be able to master them.
Gamemasters may find the “F” is for “Fear” chapter of ICONS A TO Z useful for running adventure involving Doctor Deimos.