Doctor Kafka
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Average 3 Good 5 Incredible 7 Fair 4 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Technology Expert
QUALITIES
A Bug in the System Endless Array of Robots Survivor
POWERS
Android Bodies: Dr. Kafka pilots a variety of artificial android bodies as vehicles. The abilities listed for Dr. Kafka are while he “pilots” one of his androids, giving him a human appearance and manner along with Supreme (10) Life Support. Kafka frequently builds other devices into his android bodies, or specific android vehicles to serve his needs.
Cockroach: A hyper-evolved cockroach, Dr. Kafka has certain abilities, including Supreme (10) Resistance to Afflictions and Radiation and Weak (1) Regeneration. Outside of his artificial shell, his Strength and Prowess are effectively too small to be measured (below level 1) and his Stamina is effectively 1—just stepping on him could crush him! Fortunately, his Coordination rises to Good (5) and he has a +3 bonus to his defense for his small size. His first priority is to scuttle to safety, ideally into an air duct, drainage pipe, or other area too small for his foes to follow.
BACKGROUND
They say when the world ends the cockroaches will get their turn, but at least one isn’t planning on waiting patiently. The survivability of Periplaneta americana and its related species sufficiently intrigued evolutionary scientist Dr. Victor Slan (the Ultra-Mind) that his early experiments in forced evolution involved cockroach larvae and DNA. Largely abandoned after Dr. Slan lost his funding and was forced to experiment on himself, an experimental subject emerged from the doctor’s lab and did what he was designed to do: survive, adapt, and learn.
Showing an ironic wit as well as an understanding of literature, the creature took the name “Kafka” as its own. It developed an amazing knack for electronics and engineering, sufficient to create a miniature “vox box” that allowed it to speak in human languages, and eventually building various servo robots linked to Kafka’s implanted cybernetic control systems. He has quickly become aware that, although he did not ask to be given considerable intellect, ordinary humans would find him a threat and seek to destroy him or, at best, imprison and possibly dissect him. He could not allow that, as he is the “best hope” for the future of a world being destroyed by humanity’s neglect.
So Dr. Kafka constructed the first of the android vehicles he uses and started the work of studying humanity’s frailties, failings, and potential. With ruthless efficiently, he has become convinced Earth’s biosphere needs saving, and he is just the roach to do it. One day, the world will thank what was once considered its lowliest species for saving it from ecological extinction, and woe betide anyone who stands in the way of the future!
Kafka is interested in opportunities to “save” the bio-sphere from humanity’s mistreatment. This includes creating a mass extinction or other die-off of Homo sapiens to control the population and allow the environment to recover naturally. Kafka might steal an experimental military bio-weapon or seek out a rare and potent toxin or allergen, with plans to spread it worldwide. Once human civilization collapses and the human population is reduced from the billions to a more manageable handful survivors, he can take charge of the process of rebuilding.