Drusilla White
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Average 3 Great 6 Average 3 Fair 4 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Occult
QUALITIES
Miss Kitty
Vampire
What a Charming Little Girl
POWERS
Enthrallment: Drusilla can exert Fair (4) Mind Control over any subject meeting her gaze, or after drinking their blood.
Mist Form: Drusilla can transform into a cloud of mist with Fair (4) ability becoming immune to physical attacks, able to flow through small openings, and gaining Weak (1) Flight.
Vampiric Bite: Drusilla can bite a living target and subject them to Average (3) level Life Drain by drinking their blood.
Undead: As an undead vampire, Drusilla has Supreme (10) Life Support (having no life functions), Good (5) Damage Resistance, and Immorality, unless she is beheaded or her body reduced to ash.
Wall-Crawling: Drusilla can move along walls and ceilings with Average (3) ability.
BACKGROUND
It should be in the vampire handbook: Never underestimate the viciousness of little girls. It certainly would have helped Carlos, the vampire who killed Mr. and Mrs. White and abducted their ten year-old daughter Drusilla to turn her into his “vampire childe”. He never expected sweet little Drusilla to do the same to her white Persian cat, or for her to exsanguinate Carlos while he lay sleeping one day, draining his blood and power in one greedy meal, leaving Drusilla free and on her own. Drinking all of Carlos taught her many things. Bad, wicked, wonderful things, and Drusilla hungers for more.
The child is unexpectedly powerful, even for a vampire, having taken her elder’s blood for her own. She has the full range of vampiric powers, and knows how to use them, and has access to all the lore Carlos knew. In the great scheme of vampires, it isn’t all that much. That’s why Dru intends to seek out others of her kind. Some may even be sympathetic to a poor, lost girl whose maker died the True Death all too soon before he could teach her anything. They should have read the warning in the vampire’s handbook, too.
Of course, Drusilla can’t subsist solely on hunting vampires. She takes her blood when and where she can get it, which isn’t terribly difficult given her abilities, appearance, and talent as a young actress. Miss Kitty helps too, since Drusilla’s beloved pet has all of her vampiric powers and is completely loyal to her mistress.
So the heroes may find the sobbing little girl and her cat alone in the house with the bodies of her parents, both murdered by the vampire who kidnapped her older sister. She is terrified of being left alone and begs the heroes to find her sister Jenny. Of course, while Jenny was abducted by a vampire, she doesn’t have a sister. Drusilla wants the heroes to investigate and run interference for her so she and Miss Kitty can get close enough to the vamp to feed on him. She might even be grateful enough to let the heroes and Jenny live ... this time.
Eventually, deciding she wants more friends to play with, Drusilla begins abducting local kids and starting the process of making them her vampire slaves. Naturally parents and the local authorities go into a panic when a string of a half-dozen kids go missing. The heroes can investigate to track Dru and her new brood down to an abandoned house in the area, hopefully before any of the kids are too far gone to be saved. Of course, until they get them away from Drusilla, the endangered kids are also really strong, savage “baby vamps” the heroes do not want to hurt unnecessarily.
