Hooded Cobra
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Great 6 Fair 4 Average 3 Good 5 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Martial Arts Master Mental Resistance
QUALITIES
Cold-Blooded Killer
Secret Hooded Cobra Style Weapon of Vengeance
POWERS
Cobra Venom Strike: Hooded Cobra’s most fearsome skill is a Great (6) Affliction attack known as the “Cobra Venom Strike.” Targeting certain pressure points and energy centers in the body, it produces “negative chi” in the victim. The strike can have the Reversible and Slow Recovery extras, if Hooded Cobra wishes, or the Slow Effect limit, if she prefers to allow the victim to linger. Likewise, it can result in either incapacitation or death at 0 Stamina.
Hooded Cobra can also perform various stunts with this power or her Martial Arts Mastery, including Strike attacks with extras like Affects Insubstantial or Secondary effect.
Gadgets: Hooded Cobra carries and uses a small number of Fair (4) level martial arts and ninja-style gadgets. Her Arsenal extra includes smoke pellets and throwing stars (shooting damage).
BACKGROUND
Hated is a disease, passed down from generation to generation. So it was with Li Su Lin, whose father was the first infamous criminal martial artist known as the Hooded Cobra, until he was crippled by a final confrontation with one of his foes. Raised alone by her embittered father, Su Lin was molded and trained to become the instrument of his vengeance. She knew no other life than ceaseless training in athletic, martial, and infiltration skills, honing her abilities to a deadly edge, and putting aside all personal feelings in order to carry out her duty.
As she matured, Su Lin came to resent her abusive and unrelenting father, and came to understand that she had learned and mastered every skill he had to teach her, including the secret of the dreaded Hooded Cobra Strike. She no longer saw him as a fearsome taskmaster, just a cruel and bitter old man. She hated him as much as she hated the people she had been taught to hate, those who had done this to him, and therefore to her. A confrontation led to Su Lin proving her deadly skills—her father might have been proud of what he had created, if he had survived.
From that night on, she took on the name and the mantle of the Hooded Cobra, and did as she had learned to do. Her entire life had made her into a weapon, so she uses those skills to survive, and to carry out her own plans of vengeance. She likes to see herself as an agent of retribution, visiting harsh justice on those who made her life a living hell, while at the same time working as a mercenary and killer-for-hire, utterly amoral and cold-blooded.
It’s left up to the Game Master to decide exactly who Hooded Cobra is targeting for revenge. It could be some martial artist hero who was her father’s archenemy and their circle of associates, or an entire order of martial artists, which her father might have belonged to once, perhaps with animal-themed styles of their own. This could include one or more of the heroes, or their friends, associates, or even enemies.
Heroes can also cross paths with Hooded Cobra as a mysterious assassin hired to go after a target under their protection, or even one or more of the heroes themselves. They find her graceful, deadly, and remorseless, but also trapped in a life she did not create and does not know how to escape. Still, any hero who underestimates Hooded Cobra due to sympathy for her plight may discover that she’s not going to be easily talked out of the life she had chosen, and that she has many hidden surprises, not the least of which is a special lipstick with effects much like her Cobra Venom Strike...