King Ghost
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Average 3 Average 3 Fair 4 Good 5 Incredible 7
SPECIALTIES
Performance Master
QUALITIES
Dying On Stage
The Show Must Go On Theatrical Ghost
POWERS
Ghost Form: As an undead specter, King Ghost has Total Life Support and Fantastic (9) Invisibility and Phasing powers, including the Floating extra.
Illusion: King Ghost has Incredible (7) powers of Illusion, able to cause other being to perceive whatever “staging” he wishes. Targets who believe his illusions react as if they were real, up to and including suffering Stamina loss and stunning effects.
Although King Ghost’s illusions cannot themselves be fatal, they can lead to fatal circumstances, especially when they mix illusion and reality (such as falls from catwalks or “trick” weapons that turn out to be real).
King Ghost’s Performance specialty applies to his efforts to convince his “audience” that his illusions and tricks are real.
BACKGROUND
Sir Richard Bellingham was a noted thespian and stage performer some hundred years ago, particularly known for his Shakespeare work, and for his fondness for the high-life, which eventually led him to leave behind his native England and emigrate to the United States looking for “new opportunities”—and for theater companies unfamiliar with his excesses and personal habits. He found such opportunities, and his skill as an actor and sometime director helped to keep him in work in spite of his drinking, womanizing, and gambling.
Eventually, however, Sir Richard found himself in debt to some quite serious people who were not charmed by his ingratiating manners. Lacking anything else with which to bargain, Sir Richard was able to leverage one thing: his gift for misdirection. The criminals holding his debt recognized the value of a traveling theater company as cover for certain activities, particularly when their travels took them close to banks, jewelers, and other potential targets. Sir Richard himself was always on-stage when robberies occurred, but he also benefitted from some of the take and, even after his considerable debt was paid, found he enjoyed the fruits of his associates’ ill-gotten gains.
But then Miss Lola Marquis, the young new leading lady, stumbled upon Bellingham’s “off-stage” activities. Her tragic and fatal accident during rehearsal right before the opening of a performance of “The Scottish Play,” Shakespeare’s MacBeth, brought the attention of the local constabulary, the kind of heat Sir Richard’s associates couldn’t afford. So it was that Richard Bellingham died on-stage before an entire audience, a victim of poison, and the note found in his dressing room revealed an affair with Miss Marquis, a lover’s quarrel, and a guilty man who choose to perish after accidentally killing the woman he loved. The trail of the mysterious robberies went as cold as Bellingham’s corpse, and the theater company folded not long thereafter.
But the show must go on. Sir Richard’s spirit did not rest and a revival performance of Shakespeare at the same renovated theater decades later brought him back on-stage in an all new way. “King Ghost” terrorized an audience who first thought him the ghost of Hamlet’s father. He has since been settling scores with the descendants of those who wronged him, while at the same time garnering the same things he craved in life: particularly the attention of an audience, willing or otherwise. Rather than a tormented soul trapped in the afterlife, King Ghost aims to enjoy his newfound power and avoid moving on to whatever final judgment awaits him for as long as possible.