Lord Kisin
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Average 3 Good 5 Fair 4 Great 6 Fantastic 9
SPECIALTIES
Occult Master
Power (Magic) Expert
QUALITIES
Mayan God of Death
The Stinking Lord
Wearer of the Collar of Eyes
POWERS
The Collar of Eyes: Lord Kisin wears the magical Collar of Eyes, granting him sight in spite of his eyeless face.
It also gives him the Great (6) Super-Senses See Magic, See in the Dark, See Invisible, See Spirits, and 360-degree Vision.
Death Touch: As a death god, Kisin’s touch is an Amazing (8) Energy Drain with the Life Drain extra.
Invulnerability: Lord Kisin has Incredible (7) Damage Resistance and Immortality. The destruction of his physical manifestation on Earth simply banishes him back to his extra-dimensional underworld.
Magic: Kisin wields magic of Amazing (8) power, including Mastery of the Blast, Illusion, Telepathy, and Teleportation spells.

BACKGROUND
Mayan myth contains a prophecy of a coming changing of the worlds, the ending of one world and the birth of a new age. Although some believe this prophecy is fixed and certain, in truth it is a moment of decision, one that will determine the future of the world and humanity. It is also a time when Lord Kisin, the Stinking Lord, Wearer of the Collar of Eyes, and Mayan God of the Dead and the Underworld, can make his final play for power and dominion. If he can turn the Wheel of Destiny his way, the world will die, and all will fall under his domain, forever.
Lord Kisin manifest in the world as a hideous, mummified corpse dressed in ancient Mayan regalia, particularly the broad golden Collar of Eyes, which permits him to see in every direction and to perceive things hidden from the sight of mere mortals. However, Kisin’s withered skull has no eyes of its own and, without his collar, he exists solely in darkness, unable to see at all.
That is close to the death god’s only weakness, however. He is truly immortal, and highly resistant to harm, capable of draining the life out of other creatures with just a touch. Fortunately for humanity, he is also bound to the underworld of the dead, unless given an opportunity by the prophecy and the delicate flow of fate to intervene in mortal affairs. Lord Kisin looks for and relishes these moments, planning each one carefully, like a master strategist.
Lord Kisin’s schemes are all directed at bringing about the rise of the New Sun where he rules over a world of the dead. Heroes may encounter serial killings in the style of ancient Mayan rituals intended to align a time for the death god to intervene in the world, or the work of sinister cults worshipping Lord Kisin in hopes they will be spared when he comes into his full power. Heroes may find Miss Tikal, the Secret Sorceress of the Sixth Sun, a potential ally against her old foe (see the Assembled Edition of ICONS).
The combined threat of Lord Kisin and the Yama King (see his description) may lead Warlock to try pitting the two godlike beings against each other, as both want to bring about the end of the world for their own rise to power. Such a plan has the potential to lock the two in an eternal stalemate and save the world, but could just as easily tear the Earth apart in the struggle between them! Do heroes who learn of this foolhardy plan try to stop Warlock or help him to succeed?
