Madame Muse
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Poor 2 Average 3 Poor 2 Good 5 Fair 4 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Insight Expert Psychology Expert
QUALITIES
Inspiration of the Underworld Wearer of the Mystery Mask Works Behind the Scenes
POWERS
Mystery Mask: Madame Muse wears the mystical Mystery Mask, which gives her the power to inspire emotions in subjects of her choosing within visual range, Amazing (8) level Emotional Control. Madame Muse prefers anger or sadness against opponents who threaten her. The Mystery Mask can also inspire a single subject with an Amazing Boost Intellect or Boost Awareness effect.
Madame Muse can also use the Mystery Mask more subtly, inspiring such disregard that she gains Amazing Invisibility with the Minds Only limit, as she is not truly invisible, but others act as if they don’t notice her. She can likewise erase memories with Amazing ability, using it to cover her tracks. The mask protects its wearer by inspiring a reluctance to attack or harm her: unless a character overcomes this Amazing power, Madame Muse defends against attacks with Amazing ability, opponents unconsciously “pulling” their shots so they’re more likely to miss.

BACKGROUND
Some crave the limelight without being aware of just how much that light can burn. Faye Hayden had dreams of stardom on the stage, but she lacked the necessary presence and influence to be a truly great actress. She tried everything, but her dreams always seemed too far out of reach. In desperation, she followed rumors about the mysterious Mystery Masks of the Muses, said to contain the inspirational power of the arts themselves, and she succeeded in finding them. She merged the masks of Comedy and Tragedy into one, claiming its power for her own.
Although the combined Mystery Mask gave Faye the ability to influence an audience and more, it also ended her presence in the spotlight. Unable to remove the mask (or simply unwilling to ever do so), she realized there was greater power and influence in directing things from behind the scenes, in being a muse and inspiring those who wanted to take center-stage. So Faye Hayden vanished the night of that last, fateful performance, along with all memory of her, and the mysterious Madame Muse became a force for “inspiration” from the shadows.
While she offered her gifts to artists and performers, Madame Muse found even greater benefits in serving as the inspiration to certain figures in the underworld. If a crime-lord, gang-leader, or would-be super-criminal needed a brilliant master-plan, she was willing to whisper words of encouragement in their ears and open their minds to possibilities they had never before imagined. Why become a criminal mastermind when you could create criminal masterminds and benefit from their success, while distancing yourself from their failures? The work fed the Mystery Mask’s need for emotion and Madame Muse’s ego and bank account simultaneously.
Heroes may encounter the mysterious Madame Muse when a spate of daring criminal activity begins in the city, new schemes and would-be masterminds sprouting like weeds. When it becomes clear some of the criminals involved could never come up with their plans on their own, the heroes may begin looking for the inspiration behind the scenes.
While serving as inspiration is one thing, Madame Muse never loses her desire for the spotlight, nor her love of drama, so she may also take the opportunity to “direct.” The power of the Mystery Mask allows her to stage “amusements” like an underground super-powered fighting ring, with her “acts” inspired to battle by the power of the Mask, their memories later wiped clean to protect the anonymity of the enterprise, until some heroes begin investigating, perhaps due to strange gaps in their own recollections.
