Matador
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Great 6 Good 5 Fair 4 Average 3 Fair 4 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
Athletics
QUALITIES
Corazon del Fuego
Curse of the Crimson Cape Last of a Noble Line
POWERS
The Crimson Cape: Matador’s Crimson Cape is infused with mystic power to provoke anger. Simply by waving it at a chosen target, Matador can affect them with Incredible (7) Emotion Control, limited to causing anger.
The Crimson Cape also protects Matador from harm, giving him Incredible ability for defensive reactions in combat to dodge or evade attacks.
The Heart of Fire: El Matador wields the mystic power of the Heart of Fire (El Corazon del Fuego), giving him Incredible (7) Fire Control, including the ability to throw Blasts of fire for shooting damage out to extended range and to shape fire into constructs like fiery rings or cages he uses to entrap his foes.
BACKGROUND
A deal with the Devil always comes due, even if you aren’t the one who made it. Diego de la Rocha started out having it all: born the heir of a wealthy Spanish family, with wealth, status, good looks, and his every need catered to and looked after, allowing him the time and opportunity to indulge in whatever pastimes he wanted, including an interest in the romanticism of bull-fighting, which the de la Rocha men had excelled at for generations.
Then came the shocking revelation from his dying father: The story that the family’s success was owed to an occult pact with the Devil seven generations previously, and that each first-born de la Rocha son was required to pay the dues of that arrangement in blood. “Accidents” had been arranged, and authorities bribed or bought off. What’s more, the first-born son inherited certain powers when he came of age, wielding infernal fire and the family’s crimson matador cape.
Diego’s first reaction was one of complete disbelief, but when he discovered the power of El Corazon del Fuego—the Heart of Fire—within him, he began to fear what he had been told was the truth. Would he murder an innocent person to keep his power, wealth, and the family secret?
In the end, he couldn’t do it, and everything began to unravel. Evidence of illegal business dealings came out after his father’s death. Assets were frozen and bills began to pile up. Minor criminal incidents from Diego’s youth resurfaced, with the police paying more attention to the de la Rocha heir as creditors hounded him day and night, and he suddenly became the focus for animal advocate groups looking to ban bull-fighting as a practice. In no time at all, Diego found himself penniless, hounded by the police and the media, and fled the country with what possessions and resources he had left, including his sole remaining inheritances: his name, his mysterious powers, and the Crimson Cape itself.
He has since fashioned the masked identity of El Matador, wielding his powers as a thief and petty criminal to steal the money he once took for granted. He is very careful, however, to ensure no one gets hurt as part of his crimes, cutting a dashing and even romantic figure. Still, in the back of his mind, the thought nags at him: It could all be his again, if only he would fulfill the terms of the Devil’s Bargain. After all, what is the spilling of a little innocent blood, to ensure a lifetime of success...? Unless, of course, his father was out of his mind, in which case it’s possible that Diego is following suit.
