Merry Widow
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Great 6 Good 5 Average 3 Good 5 Fair 4 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Acrobatics Martial Arts Sleight of Hand Stealth
Whips
QUALITIES
All Part of the Game Distracting Way About Her Notorious Flirt
POWERS
Gadgets: Merry Widow has access to all kinds of high-tech spy equipment, giving her Fair (4) Gadgets. Her most common include gas and smoke grenades, disguise kits, and surveillance equipment.
Whip: Merry Widow carries and wields a specially-made whip she can use to inflict Fair (4) bashing or slashing damage (depending on how she uses it). She can also use her whip for a Fair Binding attack or for Swinging to get around.
BACKGROUND
“No reason I can’t mix business and fun, is there?” The international spy, thief, and assassin-for-hire known only as “The Merry Widow” certainly lives up to her name. She is responsible for a long list of crimes, but

seems to enjoy her work immensely, seeing it all as a kind of elaborate game.
Her origins are shrouded in mystery and she delights in spinning stories about how she worked her way to the top of Most Wanted lists around the world. In some of them, she came from poverty, forced into a life of prostitution, until she became the mistress and protege of an infamous assassin. Once she’d learned all she could from him, she murdered him in their bed and struck out on her own.
In other versions, she actually was born into great wealth, but grew bored with a privileged life where she had everything but freedom and was expected to marry as her family dictated. Her husband was her first victim on their wedding night and she discovered a talent for criminal enterprise and a taste for danger. Still other times she talks about government “black ops” programs (with the specific government changing from one tale to another), being born or marrying into organized crime, or an ancient assassin cult, or even top-secret cloning projects to engineer the perfect femme fatale agent. These may explain why there seem to be no records whatsoever of the Merry Widow before her first forays into crime.
What is known is the Merry Widow is a world-class athlete, combatant, and specialist in infiltration and assassination. Her preference for fetish- wear and a black veil, coupled with her expertise with a bullwhip, is a part of her motif. She has access to state-of-the-art equipment, and manages to conceal a surprising amount of it on her person, although she displays a dislike and distaste for firearms, with her usual trademark mysteriousness as to why. The Merry Widow is a notorious flirt, but anyone who takes an interest in her advances should be warned that her paramours have a very poor survival rate indeed.
Heroes may encounter Merry Widow in a variety of guises as she carries out missions for her clients. She might show up as the charming new friend or paramour of a potential target as she works her way into their confidence before striking, or as a mysterious thief who makes off with something right under the heroes’ noses. She may even temporarily adopt a heroic identity in order to convince the heroes they can trust her, or at least pretend there’s a possibility the could rehabilitate her, until she gets what she’s after. Then she’ll disappear with a laugh and promise the heroes they’ll never see her coming next time.
