Mr. Scratch
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
Occult Expert
QUALITIES
A Deal is a Deal Little Devil
Signed and Sealed
POWERS
Conjuration: Mr. Scratch has Fantastic (9) power to conjure images or even substance from his own fiendish imagination or the desires of those around him. This gives him the effects of Empowerment, Force Constructs, Illusions, and Servant at his power level, along with the option for whatever power stunts the Game Master sees fit. Mr. Scratch usually uses his power to create illusory “backdrops” and to grant wishes in conjunction with his deals. His primary limits are the he cannot usurp the free will of any being or read their thoughts or memories without their consent.
Devil: Scratch is a supernatural being from beyond the earthly plane, possessing Supreme (10) Life Support, enabling him to ignore most mortal concerns, as well as Good (5) Damage Resistance. Scratch effectively has Immorality, since destruction of his earthly form simply banishes him temporarily back to Hell, but this is more of a challenge for the heroes rather than a power, as he rarely returns within the same story.

BACKGROUND
It might be ambition and looking to advance in the hierarchy of Hell, or simply a desire for cruel games and amusement—the imp known as “Mr. Scratch” has given many reasons for his involvement in earthly affairs, but he is a known and notorious liar, like all of his kind, so it’s quite possible none of them are entirely true. It may even be as Scratch has implied on at least one occasion that he is actually The Devil, Satan or Lucifer himself, in a form some can easily dismiss as comical, before they learn to regret having underestimated him.
Whatever the case, what is known is that Mr. Scratch is some sort of demonic or devil imp, a creature from a hellish dimension sometimes able to access the earthly plane. When he does so, he commonly implements a scheme to sow chaos and discord, particularly by offering to fulfill the darkest and most selfish wishes of mortals, often in exchange for their souls, or at least their cooperation in his plans. He delights in tempting and corrupting the innocent and in exposing what he calls the hypocrisy of goodness and morality, particularly by posing moral quandaries for so-called “heroes.”
Fortunately, Scratch’s games have rules, and there is always an out, if his victims can find it. If the heroes can solve whatever riddle or trick the infernal imp has posed to them, or can win the game set before them, then Mr. Scratch will vanish, sent back to his hellish realm for a time, until the stars align once again for him to return, or some foolish mortal calls upon the forces of evil for fulfillment of their darkest desire.
Although powerful, Mr. Scratch isn’t omnipotent; his manifest form can be destroyed, which banishes him back to Hell for a time, but he cannot ever truly be killed so long as there is evil in the world, as he is simply a manifestation of it. Scratch rarely gives heroes a straight-up fight, preferring to use illusion, deception, and various proxies and servants to get things done. Part of the challenge of dealing with him often involves figuring out his involvement in the first place, although the infernal imp is too egotistical to avoid “signing” his work for very long.
Game Masters with access to the Icons A to Z sourcebook may find the material in “D” is for “Demons” useful for running Mr. Scratch and his cohorts, particularly in terms of conjuring up lesser demons to do his dirty work. You may also want to make Scratch into a truly cosmic menace, as detailed in “C” is for “Cosmic” by giving him Vast (12) or greater abilities, able to do virtually anything within the rules of his game and the bounds of his interactions with mortals.
