Professor Hominid
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Great 6 Great 6 Great 6 Average 3 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Technology Expert
QUALITIES
Agent of Evolution Nasty, Brutish, and Smart Unnatural Selection
POWERS
Gadgets: Professor Hominid has a variety of technological gadgets of Fair (4) level available to him at all times and sometimes invents or develops more sophisticated devices as part of his plans.
Immortality: Professor Hominid does not age and has Fantastic (9) Immorality, able to recover from being reduced to Stamina 0.
BACKGROUND
The man known as Professor Hominid claims to have been born at the dawn of humankind, before, even as he is not a Homo sapien but Homo neanderthalis, the predecessor (or early cousin) to modern humans. He says he has been inventing and innovating quietly for many thousands of years, and each step forward in human evolution and development came as a result of his ingenuity. No one can be sure if he is telling the

truth—be he does appear to be what he claims: a brilliant, immortal Neanderthal.
Professor Hominid sees the world as his birthright, and his responsibility, like a gardener tending his garden. He likes to see himself as an agent of evolution, rewarding genius and power, and punishing sloth and stupidity. This often brings him into conflict with both superheroes and supervillains—he sees no distinction of “sides” in their short-lived conflicts. Hominid sees himself as above such petty concerns of good and evil. He understands a much older purpose: power and survival. However, those old rules usually put him at odd with modern concepts of peace and justice, so Hominid lives outside of the law and society to do what must be done.
Professor Hominid often works through proxies, staying hidden and directing the action from behind the scenes. He prefers to avoid publicity. He learned long ago that it is far easier to work unseen and overlooked, and soothes his considerable ego with the idea that it is necessary for him to toil in obscurity, at least for now. Indeed, heroes are initially most likely to become aware of “The Professor” as a shadowy figure, pulling strings through a variety of proxies behind the scenes. They might encounter minor super-criminals doing his bidding on this or that job, or learn that he is the one pitting certain factions and organizations against each other. Once heroes are on to the truth, Professor Hominid may have to reveal himself in order to deal with them.
His refined intellect and sense of culture are points of pride for Professor Hominid, and he is irritated—sometimes even infuriated—by the assumption that his Neanderthal nature means he is stupid. Heroes expressing surprise that “The Professor” could be a Neanderthal are likely to earn a harsh lecture about Hominid’s true nature and history.
Professor Hominid naturally plays a very long game indeed, and his schemes ultimately tie back to his obsession with human evolution and development. He may take steps to eliminate what he sees as “unviable factors,” including some alien, artificial, or non-human elements. Similarly, he may decide that super-humans—of one sort or another—are the true future of humanity, destined to replace Homo sapiens, and lend a hand to accelerate that inevitable process, even if it means the extinction of billions.
P
