Recluse
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Great 6 Incredible 7 Incredible 7 Average 3 Fair 4 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
Archeology Wrestling
QUALITIES
Avatar of Aca Tzenul
Greedy Treasure Hunter
The Spider Who Stalks Among Us
POWERS
Acid Venom: Recluse can spit an acidic venom with Good (5) Corrosion powers at a target within close range.
Extra Arms: Recluse’s four extra, spider-like, arms give him Fast Attack (6) in close combat.
Spider Senses: With eight eyes, Recluse has the following Super-Senses: Circular Vision, Enhanced Vision (+2 to Awareness tests), and Infravision.
Talons: Recluse’s fangs and talons give him a Good (5) slashing Strike attack.
Wall-Crawling: Recluse can cling to surfaces like a spider, giving him Great (6) Wall-Crawling.

BACKGROUND
Dr. Steven Porter was an international archeologist and explorer, a polite description for an infamous grave-robber and tomb raider, who constantly skirted international law in his expeditions. One such undertaking was in the jungles of the tiny South American nation of Juacacha, where Porter was captured by a tribe of Oromec Indians for violating their sacred burial grounds.
The Oromec prepared to sacrifice Porter to Aca Tzenul, the Spider God of the Underworld, but Aca Tzenul had other plans. It saw in Steven Porter a spirit with traits in harmony with its own: rapacious, greedy, cruel, and cunning. So the Spider God accepted the Oromec’s offering in an unexpected way: sending forth its power into his body and transforming it into the Spider Who Stalked Among Us, the avatar of Aca Tzenul, a monstrous combination of man and arachnid: The Recluse!
The horrified Dr. Porter broke free of his bonds and fled, escaping from the Oromec and their ritual before it was complete, and the Spider God could consume his spirit altogether. Hideously transformed, he found his way back home, where he now searches desperately for a way—any way —to lift the “Curse of the Spider God” and restore himself to normal. This usually involves thefts of experimental technologies or mystical artifacts, or cooperating with supervillains with the scientific or magical skills to potentially treat him, or simple thefts and mercenary work to accumulate the funds to continue his search. Thus far without any success.
Recluse is unaware that the work of Aca Tzenul remains unfinished, and the Spider God has not forgotten him. Quite the contrary, it wishes to complete its work investing its chosen avatar, and has commanded Oromec hunters to find and capture him. Unfortunately for Dr. Porter, Aca Tzenul’s plans involve devouring his soul in the spirit world, leaving his transformed body a suitable vessel for the malign power and intelligence of the Spider God.
Some warriors of the Oromec do not understand why Aca Tzenul has show favor to foreign thief, and would prefer to see the resultant abomination destroyed, were it not for the dread god’s vengeance. They also believe the Spider That Stalks Among Us is the fulfillment of a prophecy about a champion of the Oromec who will overthrow the oppressive military junta of Juacacha and restore control over the land to the tribes. This makes the Generals of Juacacha nervous, and they would be happy to see Recluse meet an unfortunate end before it can happen.
