Sea Devil
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Fair 4 Incredible 7 Average 3 Average 3 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Athletics Martial Arts
QUALITIES
One With the Waters
Stranger to the Surface
“The sea is my home, and my hell.”
POWERS
Aquatic: Sea Devil has Incredible (7) aquatic adaptations, including Incredible Coordination and Awareness while submerged and the ability to swim at the speed of a torpedo.
He has the extras of Leaping (from water into air) and Super-Senses (the ability to see and navigate in the dark ocean depths).
Water Control: Sea Devil also has Great (6) control over water (both fresh and salt) including the extras of Blast, Propulsion, and Tsunami but with the Source limit; he cannot create water, merely manipulate what is around him, which is still usually a great deal. Sea Devil’s water Blasts sometimes take the form of watery weapons like a whip he wields or a trident he hurls.

BACKGROUND
All that he remembers is the sea: awakening in the depths of its dark embrace, rising up towards the surface and the light. He has wrestled with hungry sharks and leapt playfully among dolphins. He explored the shallows and the depths, and learned there were others who where like him in form, if not appearance, who floated on the surface, and lived on the shore, but he learned they were not friends of the sea. They stole from it, and hunted in it, dumped their garbage and their dead into it, fouled it with chemicals and debris. They did not respect it.
He tried to learn more about them. They feared him, called him a monster, a “sea devil.” What that what he was? Perhaps so. Maybe hell wasn’t a place of fire, as so many surface people thought, but a dark, crushing place beneath the sea. If he was the Sea Devil, then he would teach people to respect his domain.
Since then, the Sea Devil’s attacks against the surface world have increased. He destroys fishing nets, and sometimes scuttles boats as well. He damages or destroys underwater construction projects, sabotages cables and other deep sea equipment, and threatens sources of pollution and harm to the sea and its creatures. Some consider him an eco-terrorist, but he really has no agenda other than to threaten anyone who encroaches upon his territory, while at the same time looking to gain their attention.
Although he has legitimate points, Sea Devil is primarily angry, lonely, and lashing out at the only other beings remotely like him, who have rejected him. Someone able to withstand the storm of his rage who reaches out might be able to calm him and earn his trust, at least until the authorities who are convinced he is a dangerous monster try to use that trust to lure him into a trap and capture him.
The true secret of the Sea Devil is for the Game Master to determine. He might be an amnesiac mutant, abandoned or cast into the sea, or a sailor or other surface dweller transformed by strange forces of magic or science, which also robbed him of memories of his former life. Sea Devil might be a survivor or exile of an underwater civilization like Atlantis or Lemuria, either with brethren still somewhere out there in the depths, or quite alone, save for the ruins of his former home. He could likewise be an aquatic alien stranded on Earth, his memory loss due to the trauma of his arrival or part of his exile. It may even be an element of an invasion scheme, his true memories and agenda locked away so no one can learn about his true mission until it is too late, and he cannot possibly give away what he doesn’t even know.
