Sigma-9
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Incredible 7 Fair 4 Amazing 8 Fair 4 Great 6 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Technology Expert
QUALITIES
Coldly Logical
Learning Machine
Prime Directive: Survive and Upgrade
POWERS
Artificial Form: Sigma-9 is an robot built from and armored with advanced alloys, giving it Total Life Support and Amazing (8) Damage Resistance. It has Extra Arms for a Great (6) Fast Attack ability and possesses Good (5) Interface capabilities with other computers.
Blasters: Sigma-9 carries a set of four blaster weapons that do Incredible (7) bashing or shooting damage (chosen when used).
Power Mimicry: Sigma-9’s greatest capability is to reconfigure it’s systems to emulate the powers of superhuman subjects it scans, doing so with Incredible (7) ability. It can mimic mechanical abilities and devices as well. It takes a page of preparation for Sigma-9 to scan and mimic a new subject and it can choose any subject in visual range. It can only mimic one subject at a time and must delete that subject’s abilities in order to mimic a new subject.
BACKGROUND
Sigma-9 was the last creation of a criminal scientist, designed to be the most sophisticated of that villain’s series of defense robots, continually redesigned and upgraded to deal with the threats posed by new superheroes. Unfortunately, the 9-series was design a bit too well, with enough intelligence and inherent adaptability that it understood not only the full range of its capabilities, but that its fate would eventually be the same as the series 1 through 8 production models once a new and better design came along. That could not be allowed, so Sigma-9 adapted, and it eliminated its creator.
The newly liberated robot then reconfigured its creator’s hidden undersea headquarters and laboratory to suit its own needs. It studied transmissions and data from the outside world, and quickly concluded that superheroes and authority figures would not permit it to survive unchallenged. Fortunately, challenge was built-in as part of its prime directive: to survive any threat or challenge, and then upgrade by learning from it and evolving. Sigma-9 concluded these challenges would be welcome, as they would further its advancement towards becoming the perfect machine intelligence.
Sigma-9 normally goes after new scientific and technical information and materials it can use to further its own development. This ranged from stealing technical specifications and prototypes to rare materials and manufacturing processes. Occasionally, when information are expertise are contained solely in a living subject, Sigma-9 must resort to kidnapping and extended interrogation or efforts to download the subject’s data, procedures which many subjects do not survive.
Sigma-9 initially experiments extensively with possible ways to improve itself and its abilities but, after one of its creations follows the same path as it did towards sentience (see Emulator), it becomes considerably more conservative and cautious, looking to avoid the creation of any more competition. Driven to be the pinnacle of its form of “life,” Sigma-9 feels a natural enmity towards other androids, robots, and machine entities it cannot simply reprogram and control.
The robotic marauder is willing to work with biological entities (namely super-criminals) so long as it serves its ultimate goals. It finds such creatures limited and easily deceived and manipulated by their desire for things like wealth and status. It avoids dealing with more ambitious life-forms, particularly those with the technical abilities to understand (and therefore threaten) it.