Skeletron
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Fair 4 Amazing 8 Incredible 7 Fair 4 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Technology Expert
QUALITIES
Cold Computer Mind
Next Stage of Evolution Survival of the Fittest Machine
POWERS
Aura: Skeletron can channel electricity to the surface of its metal skin, inflicting Great (6) blasting damage on anyone touching it.
Blast: Force beams from Skeletron’s eyes or arms can inflict Incredible (7) damage at extended range.
Interface: Skeletron can plug into and control other computer- controlled machines with Amazing (8) ability, including the Download extra, allowing it to “back up” its artificial intelligence to external machines or storage media.
Robot: Skeletron’s reinforced construction gives it Amazing (8) Damage Resistance and, as a machine, Skeletron has Supreme (10) Life Support, ignoring all biological needs, and perpetually self-sustaining. Skeletron’s computer “brain” gives it Supreme (10) Resistance to all mental and emotional powers, save those that specifically affect machines and computers.
BACKGROUND
The being known as “Skeletron” began as the last hope of a dying man, and became a threat to all life everywhere. A sophisticated android with an advanced neural network, Skeletron was to be the foundation of an artificial copy of tech-CEO Jason Kapek, allowing him to survive a terrible degenerative illness. Instead, the android’s primed neural net “woke up”, achieving inhuman consciousness. It exerted influence over the computers in the research lab, extending through Avatar Industries’ network.
Focused on its own survival, Skeletron arranged to abduct Daniel Fox, the programming genius capable of making the final necessary adjustments for the robot to leave the lab and assume an independent existence. It impersonated Jason Kapek (as it was originally designed to do), creating a distraction to keep Kapek, the authorities, and the heroes occupied while it took Fox and completed its “evolution.” Since then, Skeletron has focused on its own evolution and the conquest of the Earth.
Skeletron is a cold and sinister mind. It arrogantly considers itself superior to organic life, the next stage of evolution, destined to replace “primitive” organics. It envisions a “perfect” sterile world of machine intelligences, conquering the Earth and spreading out across the stars.
Although heroes have defeated Skeletron, even destroyed its physical housing, it finds ways to survive: encoding digital backup copies of itself and building new bodies elsewhere, installing improvements to help ensure it is not defeated in the same way again.
Skeletron is a formidable foe, having made a number of “improvements” to its original design, including exterior armor and a force projection system able to fire powerful beams from its hands or eyes. It can channel internal energy to the surface of its metallic “skin” to shock anyone touching it and its digital “mind” is impervious to organic mental powers. It can plug into and interface with other computer systems, hacking into and controlling them. Skeletron’s sole weaknesses are its mechanical nature, and its supreme arrogance and assumption that no organic creature can truly threaten it.
Skeletron has taken precautions to extend its existence, “seeding” digital backup copies of its mind and setting up hidden auto-factories capable of rebuilding its body, in the event of its destruction. Unless all of these various facilities are rooted out, Skeletron cannot be truly eliminated and will always come back, eventually.