Spartan
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Average 3 Fair 4 Average 3 Fair 4 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Guns Expert Martial Arts Mechanics Military
QUALITIES
Armored Mercenary Nothing Without His Armor “I AM SPARTAN!”
POWERS
SPARTAN Armor: All of Spartan’s powers come from the suit of armor he pilots, like a walking tank. The SPARTAN (Special Armored Tank) armor stands some nine feet tall, controlled from a compartment in the chest area. It provides the pilot with Incredible (7) Damage Resistance and Life Support (all but eating, sleeping, and vacuum). The armor’s servos give it Amazing (8) Strength (which also increases the pilot’s effective Stamina) and it has three main weapons systems: machine guns (Blast 5 shooting), a heavy arm-cannon (Blast 7 shooting), and the ability to electrify its outer hull (Aura 6).
BACKGROUND
Delvin “Del” Rossum earned himself a dishonorable discharge from the United States Marine Corps for violent off-duty behavior. So he took his considerable military training and experience and his love of a good
fight and built himself a career as a “freelance military consultant”—in other words, a highly-paid mercenary, working wherever there were problems to be solved with the violent application of force, and people willing to pay him to do it. He made a name for himself as a professional and a leader of other mercenaries like himself, so much so that Rossum was hired to steal an advanced prototype from a U.S. military contractor. Naturally, he wanted to take it for a “test drive” himself before turning it over to his employers.
What Rossum didn’t know was that the SPARTAN armor was still experimental and there were some definite bugs to work out. In particular, the armor’s bio-feedback controls had to attune themselves to a particular pilot and, even once they were, tended to cause an amplification of aggressive behavior. The theft of the armor was successful, but the delivery did not go as well. A hyped-up Rossum turned on his employers and decided he and the SPARTAN were too good a match to break up—ever.
Since then, Spartan has made an even bigger name for himself as a mercenary with the power of a whole squadron at his command. He has learned how to maintain and repair his armor, since he doesn’t trust anyone else to do it, and his obsession with holding on to the SPARTAN and the power it represents has only deepened. Although the armor has adapted to his brain patterns, the damage has been done. Del Rossum is the Spartan in his mind, and won’t let anything separate him from it.
Spartan usually finds employment with various criminal organizations and masterminds in need of some muscle, spending the rest of his time either maintaining his armor or else stealing the materials or resources he needs for it. He hides out in safe-houses and nations with no extradition treaties with the places where he is wanted, relying on his mercenary connections. Although he’s often a solo act these days, Spartan sometimes puts together a team of mercenaries to carry out a mission (use the Soldier from the Stock Characters section of the Game Mastering chapter of ICONS).
Game Masters can use the SPARTAN armor as a template for similar kinds of power armor, or even have a different pilot acquire it from Rossum, probably with the same unfortunate side-effects. Tinkering and experimentation can add different systems on to the armor, including sensors and other weapons, to provide the heroes with a surprise from time to time. See the the Devices section of the Powers chapter of ICONS for some ideas.