The Creeper
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Average 3 Average 3 Great 6 Fair 4 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Plant Control
QUALITIES
The Green World Endures Grown Beyond Who He Was Smarter Than You Think
POWERS
Plant Control: The Creeper has Incredible (7) power over plant-life, including the extras of Binding and Burst, affecting all of the plants in close range of an area within extended range. He also frequently performs various Plant Control stunts; award the players Determination Points when these come up during play.
BACKGROUND
Carl Wessler was nobody. The kind of guy everyone overlooked and never really noticed. He did janitorial and groundskeeping work at the Botanical Gardens, where scientists from the University were working on a variety of new fertilizers and fast-growth formulas.
Carl wasn’t supposed to sample the fruits and vegetables of the botanists’ labors, but they looked so good, and what was the harm? It seemed a shame to waste them. It wasn’t long before they discovered what he had been doing. The Gardens were prepared to fire him him, and Carl got angry, very angry. When he got mad, the plants listened, and responded. They grew, spilling out of their beds and creeping along the ground at Carl’s command! He left the review board trussed up in vines and left menial work—and Carl Wessler—behind forever. He was no longer ordinary nobody Carl, he was...the Creeper!
The experimental enzymes also enhanced portions of the Creeper’s brain, although he maintains that he was always smarter than most people thought. He used his newfound powers to commit robberies and acquire some fast cash and resources, for further study of his abilities and their potential. Unfortunately, although he has learned how to control and develop his powers, the Creeper doesn’t really have a knack for learning much about botany or the science behind them.
The Creeper can be an underestimated B-list villain, primarily committing robberies to maintain his criminal lifestyle, or occasionally working in concern with other super-criminals as part of a team. Other times, ambition and good fortune allow him the opportunity to make a run for the big leagues, using means to greatly enhance or expand his powers, from mad science experiments to forbidden mystical secrets. The Creeper can raise armies of “plant soldiers” for a dreadful harvest that can seize control of a city or even nation, cover a city in jungle foliage under his command, or even take control of the entire plant bio- sphere of Earth, threatening all life unless his demands are met.
One stunt the Creeper makes good use of is creating simulacra of ordinary people using the plants he controls, sometimes grown in flower- or seed-like pods. These duplicates are under his control and identical to the people they imitate, at least until their surface layer is torn away to reveal wood, sap, and plant matter beneath. The Creeper can even use a simulacrum of himself to evade capture, perhaps leading the heroes to believe that he has transformed into a plant-creature of some kind, at least until the real Creeper shows up again to remind them that the green world always endures, and he’s smarter than they think.