Beast Man
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Amazing 8 Great 6 Fair 4 Fair 4 Good 5 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Athletics Expert Survival Expert Zoology Expert
QUALITIES
Consumate Hunter
Dark Pact with Ancient Forces Savage Noble
POWERS
Animal Mimicry: Beast Man has the Incredible (7) power to take on the abilities of any animal he sees.
His favorites (practiced over time, and now achievable even without the creatures nearby) are the lion (claws and bite, slashing damage 4), the eagle (claws, slashing damage 3, Flight 3, Enhanced Sight), the python (bite, slashing damage 3, Wrestling expert) and the bat (Flight 2, Sonar Sense).
In addition, he has the extrasensory ability to see through the eyes of his trained animal companions and is often is accompanied by a trained hunting falcon.

BACKGROUND
A consummate hunter, Lord Sebastian Carstairs sought every means to better his craft. This obsession led him to the hut of an African witch- doctor, who gave Carstairs the edge that he sought, by making a dark pact with ancient forces, Lord Sebastian was infused with the feral power of nature itself, but at the price of Carstairs’ soul.
After acquiring his powers, Carstairs discovered there was no challenge left in hunting animals. His mind, warped by his pact, began to look for more challenging prey. So he began to hunt people—and from there, moved on to hunting superhumans.
Dubbed “Beast Man” by the press, he now travels the globe, selecting the superhumans that he considers to be the greatest challenge, and hunting them. He is a relentless and clever hunter, but has begun to lose control, under the influence of his increasingly savage nature. He is capable of mindless rages, often at odds with his cunning plans.
Beast Man has no regard for the law or good and evil, as likely to hunt criminals as he is heroes. Someone might begin taking out villains, with the heroes investigation leading them to Beast Man and giving him new prey to hunt in the process.
If Beast-Man is hunting heroes on their own turf, he may try to trap them and bring them to his private island wilderness preserve and hunt them down at his leisure. The island is filled with all manner of wild beasts, including dinosaurs—Carstairs had considered them to be the pinnacle of all prey, until he switched his attention to superhumans. The heroes have to survive the perils of the island, and avoid becoming the newest Trophies of the Beast-Man with matters are further complicated by the presence of several captive supervillains on the island as well. Do the heroes team up with their foes in order to survive the deadly traps of Beast Man’s Island, or do they try to go it alone? What happens when their newfound “allies” sell them out for their own survival?
Beast-Man may decide he has exhausted the “game” potential of the Earth, and use his vast fortune and resources to contact extraterrestrial intelligences or extra-dimensional beings and bring them here. What do the heroes do when his efforts attract the attention of a race of Intergalactic conquerors, or world-devouring ancient evil?