Black Flame
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Great 6 Average 3 Good 5 Good 5 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Athletics Stealth
QUALITIES
“Can’t take the heat, baby?” Gotta Score to Settle Tarnished Legacy
POWERS
Fire Control: Black Flame has the Great (6) ability to generate and control fire, including projecting Blasts of flame, Flight, a protective Force Field of fiery energy, and seeing into the infrared spectrum (Infravision).
BACKGROUND
The original Black Flame was a popular “urban” superhero in the 1970s. Like many minority heroes of the period—including Black Ice (a thematic partner/love interest for a while), the Barrio Brawler, and the Chinese Dragon—Black Flame chose a name that would make her an identifiable role model. Black Flame primarily operated in the inner city, an area often neglected by more “mainstream” heroes. While her
powers were formidable, the Black Flame often fought low-powered criminal threats such as gangs, pimps, crime lords, and drug dealers.
The Black Flame faded from the scene in the 1980s in order to settle down and start a family. In her secret identity, Donna Danson married a young lawyer and had a child, Jenna. Unfortunately, Donna’s husband was killed when he attempted to prosecute some gangsters. Black Flame came out of retirement for vengeance, only to discover that she had brain cancer and it was eating away at her ability to control her powers. She’d cornered the thugs responsible for her husband’s death and flamed them, only to start a blaze that consumed four city blocks, killing four people and injuring many more. In order to protect Jenna, Donna did not come forward when calls were made for the Black Flame to stand trial and was never seen again.
By the turn of the millennium, Donna’s money had almost run out. Jenna, too young to recall the good times, grew up in poverty. In an effort to keep a low profile, Donna had not availed herself of any of the government programs available and took one low-paying job after the next to keep food on the table and a roof over their heads. When Jenna first manifested her powers as a young teen, Donna made her swear not to use them except to heat the house, cook food, or otherwise help provide necessities they could no longer afford.
Jenna was angered at the public’s treatment of her mother after so many years of helping others, but she kept her promise. She kept a low profile and ended up waitressing instead of going to college. Unfortunately, Donna’s cancer finally consumed her and after her death Jenna felt no compulsion to keep her promise. Donning her mother’s old costume, the new Black Flame would take revenge on the city that turned its back on her mother.
Jenna has taken great pains to make the world believe she is the same Black Flame from the old days. She wears her mother’s old costume. While she has shorter hair (the afro wig was too difficult to manage), the new Black Flame speaks in the clichéd jive language that Jenna learned from blaxploitation films. She works with the current Baron Kriminel (whose predecessor was an old foe of her mother’s). When Jenna learned that a curse from the previous Baron caused her mother’s cancer and he was behind the gang that murdered her father, she brought his career to swift and fiery end and seized control of his gang. Now his successor is her lieutenant, and she’s happy to remind him—and anyone else in her organization—about the price of angering her.