Bombshell
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Average 3 Fair 4 Poor 2 Average 3 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
Military Wrestling Expert
QUALITIES
Explosive Temper Stunning
Tougher Than Any Man
POWERS
Absorption: Bombshell has Supreme (10) Absorption of both physical and energy damage, soaking up damage from virtually any source. Once she accumulates 10 levels of damage, she explodes, inflicting that amount of bashing damage to everyone within close range.
She can choose to explode before that point, doing whatever level of damage she has accumulated, but once she hits the “point of no return” she’ll go off regardless. The same is true if the Bombshell is KO’ed; she explodes with whatever energy she has remaining, making it a potentially dangerous proposition to take her out of a fight.
Bombshell disappears in the explosion, seemingly vaporized, but reforms on the following page. She has refined her control over the
reconstitution process enough to reappear anywhere within extended range of where she exploded, and has used this ability to her advantage at times.
BACKGROUND
Leah LeBraun always struggled with what men thought of her. First it was her tomboyish ways as a girl. Later it was her looks and her figure, combined with an aggressive nature. It earned LeBraun nothing but trouble when she enlisted in the military. Her violent responses to taunts, jibes, and innuendo got her cited for insubordination, and eventually drummed out of the service.
Leah got some respect when she stepped into the world of professional wrestling, where “Amazon” LeBraun became a local star. She wowed crowds and opponents not only with her looks, but with her skills, her strength, and her fierce attitude. Still, she was a woman in a man’s world, and eventually discovered that even her manager considered her a “novelty act.” She wasn’t a champion: she was a sideshow.
So Leah engineered the robbery of the arena’s receipts the night she won her latest bout. She went on to become muscle for hire in the criminal underworld, until the fateful night when she helped to heist an unstable chemical undergoing testing. Once again, her temper got the better of her, and her criminal compatriots assumed no one could have survived the ensuing explosion.
But Leah did survive. What’s more, the chemical changed her, gave her the power to soak up energy from punches, impacts, explosions, virtually everything. It built and built inside of her until she would explode! But she always reformed in the aftermath, completely unharmed. The same couldn’t be said of her opponents, and Leah LeBraun decided to use her newfound power to make her mark as a criminal-for-hire. The papers tagged her as a “Blonde Bombshell” and Bombshell she has been ever since.
Bombshell is primarily a mercenary or a petty criminal, lacking the intellect or ambition for much planning of her own. She’s also got a competitive streak, and is likely to seize opportunities to prove her fighting skills in things like gladiatorial games or underground fighting rings.