Bounder
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Good 5 Average 3 Fair 4 Fair 4 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Athletics Taunting
QUALITIES
Always Bounces Back
“Now you see me. Now you don’t!” Out of His Head
POWERS
Recovery: Bounder has an unusual form of rapid recovery: Whenever he “bounds” (teleports) his body is broken down and re-created, restoring all lost Stamina. If he is ever incapacitated or killed, he reflexively bounds and recovers, effectively giving Bounder Supreme (10) Regeneration and Immortality.
Teleportation: Bounder has an Amazing (8) Teleportation ability, involving the quantum deconstruction and recreation of his physical form. He can carry up to one other person with him when he teleports, so long as they are in physical contact. The passenger doesn’t get the benefit of Bounder’s Recovery—instead, they suffer an Amazing (8) level Stunning effect against their Willpower.
BACKGROUND
Martin Bryson was smart, all you had to do was spend about 10 minutes in his presence to learn that, since odds were good he would tell you. Of course, most people didn’t care to spend that long around Martin in general, particularly since he was also opinionated and had a need to be right. It was the latter that got Martin where he is now.
As a grad student and doctoral candidate, Martin worked on a research project in his native England involving the quantum transmission of matter. Although there were some promising initial results, the project faced a series of setbacks and delays and couldn’t produce anything practically useful. Mr. Bryson insisted he could figure out a way to make it work, believing consciousness—a directing mind—was the key element.
To prove he was right, Martin Bryson violated all of the lab’s safety protocols for a daring experiment: teleporting himself across the room. He even recorded it for posterity, which is how his superiors and colleagues found out what happened to him. When Bryson triggered the experiment, he disappeared, but seemingly did not return.
Although he was presumed disintegrated, what actually happened was Martin Bryson teleported miles away, much further than he had intended, where he was immediately hit by a truck! He was killed on impact, but somehow instinctively or automatically teleported again, the process restoring his body to its previous condition—except that he ended up deep under water and drowned.
It “took some time” according his scrambled recollections, but Bryson eventually “bounded” someplace where he was relatively safe. The problem was, by then, his sanity was scrambled. Perhaps the quantum process or the trauma affected his brain but, whatever the case, Martin Bryson gave way to “that Bounder,” as one of his superiors had called him. Martin was a dull, lifeless drone who knew nothing about experiencing new things. The Bounder, on the other hand, was going to have some fun!
Ever since, the madcap villain has shown up in cities and places around the world. He’s a fantastic thief, given his abilities, and sometimes uses them to steal things. Other times he likes to play practical jokes intended to deflate the kinds of egos he once had to deal with in academia and research. Most of the time Bounder just wants to have some fun, even if he doesn’t understand at all the notion that not everyone can “bounce back” from his kind of antics the way that he does.