Chopper
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Fair 4 Fair 4 Poor 2 Fair 4 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Blades
Motorcycle Expert
QUALITIES
Boss of the Road Warriors Cuts Through Trouble “Gonna ride ’til I die.”
POWERS
Chainsaw Hand: Chopper’s hand has been replaced with a cybernetically controlled mini chainsaw, capable of Good (5) slashing damage in close combat.
Motorcycle: Chopper rides a modified motorcycle he can control with one hand, with Handling 7, Speed 4, Structure 4. His bike is equipped with single-use mini-rockets for Great (6) shooting damage and caltrop dispensers that cause a difficulty 6 Handling test for ground vehicles to avoid losing control.
BACKGROUND
The man known as Chopper (nobody calls him by his given name of Frank Ramos any more), has known only two great passions in his life. The first is riding free on the open road on his motorcycle, and the other
is kicking ass and taking names. Small wonder that Chopper joined up with a “bike club” called the Road Warriors and quickly rose to become its “president,” leading its members into all kinds of mayhem and leaving a trail of broken bodies behind them.
It could have been the end of Chopper’s criminal career when he got his hand blown off during a botched-up robbery, but a guy like Chopper doesn’t just give up and die easily. He not only managed to survive and get patched up, but arranged with some of the gang’s underworld contacts to get a himself a mini-chainsaw blade attached to his arm, enabling him to really “cut through trouble” when it came his way. He found out who in the Road Warriors had sold them out and messed up the job, and cut him off at the knees, literally, as an example to the others.
Since then, Chopper has led the Road Warriors to take on targets from simple smash-and-grabs to knocking over armored cars. Sometimes he chooses the next target, but the gang also hires out as mercenary muscle for anyone willing to pay or cut them in on a substantial portion of the proceeds. Chopper likes to tell such clients the story of how he got his novel new “hand” and how he used it to deal with those who betray him. Thus far, no one has tried to use the Road Warriors as cannon fodder.

ROAD WARRIOR
PROWESS COORD. STRENGTH INTELLECT AWARENESS WILLPOWER STAMINA
4442337
Specialties: Blades, Bludgeons, Motorcycle
Powers: The Road Warriors ride heavy bikes with abilities like Chopper’s. Qualities: “Gonna ride ’til I die,” Loyal to Chopper
The members of the Road Warriors biker club are all hardened criminals who consider themselves modern-day Vikings: raiding “soft” targets at the orders of their boss, and then celebrating for as long as they can on the spoils. They’re loyal to Chopper, largely because they know full well what happens to those who betray him, and because their boss ensures they’ve got a steady stream of targets and loot.

