Confeder-Ape
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Great 6 Good 5 Great 6 Fair 4 Average 3 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Athletics Expert Civil War Expert Military
QUALITIES
“The Apes Shall Rise Again!” Rebel Primate
Southern Gentleman
POWERS
Ape Command: Confeder-Ape has Great (6) Mind Control, limited to other apes and monkeys.
Ape Senses: Confeder-Ape has Great Super-Senses, including Enhanced Vision, Hearing, and sense of Smell.
Leaping: Like the great apes, Confeder-Ape has Fair (4) Leaping ability and is an excellent climber (with his Amazing Athletics).
Prehensile Feet: Confeder-Ape’s feet are usable as hands and his enhanced coordination gives him an Average (3) Fast Attack ability.
BACKGROUND
Behavioral scientist and avid Civil War re-enactor Dr. Dwight Givens was experimenting with methods of communication between humans and primates. He had built a device to sync the brain-patterns of users from
two different species, but something went wrong. Givens’ intellect, along with his obsession for Civil War history and re-enactments, were transferred to a great gorilla, leaving Dr. Givens comatose for months. To the newly intelligent “Confeder-Ape,” the “Lost Cause” of the Confederate South became synonymous with the overthrow of human domination of primates. The apes would rise, and he would lead them to victory!
Confeder-Ape (or “The Colonel” as he prefers to be known) quickly discovered the ability to “sync” his own brain-waves with those of other primates, transmitting his marching orders directly into their minds. With the other experimental apes and monkeys at his command, he easily escaped the lab to being plotting the overthrow of humanity. He looted Dr. Givens’ locker, including pieces of his Civil War uniform, to ensure he was “properly prepared” for his calling.
Heroes usually encounter Confeder-Ape in one of his various schemes to gather a simian army or create an independent “Ape Nation” that will secede from the rest of the world and establish its sovereignty. A fairly brilliant, if inhuman, mind, “the Colonel” has sought means of elevating other apes to his level using Dr. Givens’ technology (largely unsuccessful, thus far), as well as enhancing or improving his own abilities, particularly looking to expand his mind control powers to other animals, or even humans.
Even Confeder-Ape’s successes have led to setbacks: He managed to create a “Primate Private” in the form of Monkey Business, but the gestalt hive-mind of the psychic monkey swarm was able to shake off Confeder-Ape’s mental influence, and the experience of being controlled created a definite rift between the two. Confeder-Ape considers Monkey Business a “traitor to the cause” of Simian Secession, while Monkey Business wants nothing to do with her former “commander” unless it is to find some way to put her selves in charge.