Copy Cat
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Good 5 Fair 4 Average 3 Fair 4 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Athletics Expert Martial Arts Expert Sleight of Hand Stealth
QUALITIES
“Anything you can do, I can do better.”
Former Spy
“This cat won’t be caged.”
POWERS
Skill Mimicry: Copy Cat has the Great (6) ability to copy the physical specialties of anyone she sees.
Essentially, she is a Master of all specialties relating to Prowess, Coordination, and Strength—or can quickly Master a specialty after seeing a Master perform it.
The specialties listed above are Kat’s own abilities, without the use of her power, and are not additive; her Skill Mimicry substitutes for them most of the time. Her power allows Copy Cat to perform ability stunts with virtually any physical specialty.
BACKGROUND
Katarina Kalinnikov was the most promising decathlete and gymnast Russia had produced in a generation or more. She won a record number of gold medals at the Olympics, along with the hearts of people around the world. Unfortunately, she also won the attention of certain factions of Russian Intelligence, who suspected Katarina’s talent was more than it appeared.
Using techniques from the old Soviet Science Cities that investigated superhuman potential, they proved it: Katarina was not merely a gifted athlete, but a mutant with the ability to modify her own “muscle memory” based on observed actions. In short, she could see someone do something once, then duplicate it perfectly. Her body adapted quickly to any new demands placed on it, giving her an unmatched level of physical fitness and coordination. Threatened with public exposure as a cheat and the loss of her accolades, Kat had no choice but to do as her new “patrons” wanted. She became a spy and operative for them.
Her new handlers underestimated “Copy Cat” and she eventually turned the tables on them. The men with influence over her got caught in the crossfire of international intrigue while she spirited away. Still, Katarina now had a taste for the dangerous life they forced her into, but she would live it on her own terms. Copy Cat became a freelance spy and espionage agent—and occasional thief—selling her considerable skills (technically other people’s considerable skills) to the highest bidder.
In truth, Katarina longs for the days when she could convince herself that she was just an amazingly talented star athlete achieving things through her own efforts. She feels deep down that her “talent” is a cheat, but so long as she is forced to take unfair advantage (since her power is largely unconscious and she can’t help but use it), she figures she may as well benefit from it and ensure that no one else ever tries to control her.
