Diamond
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Average 3 Fantastic 9 Average 3 Fair 4 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Acting
Business Expert
QUALITIES
Popularity is Power Secret Past Stunning Entrance
POWERS
Flight: Diamond can soar through the air under her own power at Amazing (8) speed, outpacing most modern aircraft.
Invulnerability: Diamond has Amazing (8) Damage Resistance.
Super-Senses: Diamond’s Great (6) senses include Extended Hearing, Extended Vision, Infrared Vision, Microscopic Vision, Ultrasonic Hearing, and X-Ray Vision.
BACKGROUND
What makes a hero? If it’s a matter of public persona, the Diamond may be one of the world’s greatest superheroes: her face and figure splashed across the covers of magazines, her name always trending on social media, her exploits covered breathlessly by the press and news organizations. Posters of her hang in dorm rooms, people dress in her fashionable clothing lines, and her autobiography In the Rough is a best-
seller. She’s more than just a hero, she is a one-woman industry. A brand. A superstar.
She’s also a fraud.
Oh, her powers and even many of her exploits are real, but “Diamond” the hero is entirely the creation of the women she used to be, the past she keeps carefully buried. It might be scandalous or simply too mundane—whatever the case, the story about how Diamond spontaneously discovered her superhuman powers and decided to use them for the benefit of all humanity is just that, a nice story. However she came by her abilities, Diamond has always understood one thing: Popularity is real power.
So she has carefully made herself into the pinnacle of beauty, charm, and polished poise, one of the most-beloved, popular, and famous superheroes in the world, in a marketing campaign of epic proportions. She carefully designed her look and public persona, followed by teaming up with known heroes (letting them do most of the difficult work) before stepping in to deliver the final and photogenic blow that just happened to get captured for posterity. Licensing her likeness to product manufacturers and signing on as a celebrity spokesperson for all of the right causes, starting her own business and foundation to further those causes, with stories of her charitable works.
Things have gone further since then. The brighter the spotlight, the deeper the shadows, and Diamond has done some things that can never come to light. Along with carefully burying her past (and ensuring no one digs too deeply), she’s been willing to arrange through third parties to hire mercenary super-criminals to create “photo ops” where she somehow knows about a crime in progress and swoops in at the last moment to save the day.
She has likewise arranged for “unfortunate incidents” to befall rivals, either in business or in the superhero game. Other famous heroes suddenly become targets of the underworld when their star threatens to eclipse hers, bounties quietly placed on them for any criminal or mercenary willing to bring the heroes down a few pegs. All the while Diamond smiles and waves for the cameras and talks about how she sympathizes with the plight of her colleagues. Perhaps she can lend them a hand sometime—and wouldn’t you know that she is just what is needed to take care of that situation.
Diamond has built herself a beautiful house of cards. Sooner of later, it may come tumbling down, and it will be ugly when it does.
