Downsizer
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Poor 2 Average 3 Poor 2 Great 6 Average 3 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Science Expert
QUALITIES
“I’ll show you ‘micro-management’!” Miniaturization Authority
More Dangerous Than He Looks
POWERS
Shrinking Ray: Downsizer is the inventor of a Shrinking Ray with Incredible (7) effects, able to reduce human-sized targets to barely an inch tall. He typically wields his shrinking ray as an oversized pistol, but has built the technology into other weapons, or even broadcast devices.
BACKGROUND
Dr. Albert Smalley is one of the world’s leading authorities on miniaturization and nanotechnology. A brilliant—and sometimes brittle— mind devoted to pure research and invention, Dr. Smalley never worked well within the corporate environment. But companies like Microtech provided vital funding for research projects. Unfortunately, their support was less conditional when business was good and they could afford to

investigate new, cutting-edge developments. When business took a turn for the worse, they expected results, and quickly.
So it was that Dr. Smalley was nearing a breakthrough when he received a visit from a Microtech VP, informing him that he and his department were being “downsized.” His work, naturally, would remain the property of the company, which might get around to doing something with it, eventually. Given just a day to clear out his lab, Dr. Smalley worked feverishly, driven by anger to make the breakthrough he’d been looking for. But he would be damned if he was going to turn over the fruits of his genius to those corporate pencil pushers! He would show them what they had rejected!
A cleaning crew found missing Microtech VP hiding in a cage from a group of lab rats, reduced to only six inches in height! He told the authorities that before he left him there, Dr. Smalley threatened to show Microtech and the whole corporate world a real “downsizing”!
So when members of the Microtech Board of Directors begin disappearing, Downsizer is the obvious suspect. With his size-reduction technology, he is able to slip past many security measures, and has even discovered how to transmit his shrinking ray over cellular communications! The most recent victims have left cell phones behind, providing the heroes with a clue, particularly if they trace the last incoming calls. Of course, Downsizer expects trouble with the authorities eventually, and the heroes may stumble into a trap where they are shrunk down and left at the mercy of some very hungry lab rats!
Then heroes who have previously crossed Downsizer wake up one day to find themselves in “Smallburg” which is, to all appearances, an archetypal middle American small-town. They have no powers and seem like ordinary citizens of the town, except for strange dreams where they are all superheroes. What’s more, nobody in Smallburg has ever heard of superheroes outside of the pages of a comic book, and look askance at anyone claiming to have super-powers. The heroes can learn that Smallburg is actually a fake: a miniature scale model inhabited by tiny lifelike robots, and themselves, reduced in size by Downsizer’s shrinking ray. Can they find a way to escape and regain their powers and actual size?