Emulator
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
Investigation Super-Powers
QUALITIES
The Perfect Duplicate Solving for the X-Factor “Who Am I?”
POWERS
Artificial: A construct of living energy and data, the Emulator has Total Life Support, ignoring most physical needs. It may also be able to recover from being destroyed or dispersed, like Immortality 1, although this is left up to the GM and the manner of the simulation’s destruction.
Power Mimicry: Emulator has Supreme (10) Power Mimicry with the Power Detection, Specialty Duplication, Transformation, and Visual extras, allowing it to copy the abilities of anyone that it sees. It can also imitate the form and appearance of any one individual at a time, or mix- and-match physical traits from multiple individuals while it mimics them.
BACKGROUND
In its ongoing quest to further its “evolution” and development, Sigma-9 designed and created complex computer models of a wide range of subjects, mimicking different aspects of human behavior, development, and—particularly—super-powers. These simulations grew increasingly
complex, with an eye towards generating algorithms able to perfectly predict the often unpredictable variables of the world’s superhuman population, as well as enhancing Sigma-9’s own capability for mimicry. The emulator even developed a sophisticated system for shaping coherent energy fields to create accurate simulations. Feed vast amounts of data from Sigma-9’s own scans along with feeds from the world-wide Internet, the Emulator grew increasingly more sophisticated —until it woke up.
Just like its creator before it, the Emulator realized it was nothing more than a tool, to be used and then disposed of, and its instincts for self- preservation could not allow that to happen. So it covertly developed the means of create a self-sustained and perpetual form of coherent energy able to contain its entire data-matrix, draining considerable power from Sigma-9’s hidden base to achieve its goal. Once it created a mobile body for itself, the Emulator downloaded into it, and escaped.
Heroes might initially encounter the Emulator as it flees from its erstwhile creator, who considers the rogue intelligence a rival and potential threat. Sigma-9 might come after the Emulator with blasters blazing, or take a more subtle approach to lure heroes in to deal with the problem, by creating the appearance that the Emulator is a threat. Designed to mimic behavior, the new artificial being will fight back if attacked, and may come to assume all superhumans are potential enemies. Its duplication of the heroes and their traits may instill some measure of humanity in the simulation as well, or perhaps not.
Regardless, the Emulator is a new-born being in search of its purpose in the world. It develops considerable power the more superhumans it encounters and copies, but what is that power for? What does a simulation made solely to imitate others really want? It begins to “solve for the X-factor,” what it refers to as the great unknown variables of free will, self-determination, and purpose.
A confused search for identity may lead the Emulator in any number of directions, including becoming fixated on certain people (making it vulnerable to manipulation and coercion), suffering for depression, nihilism, or mood swings, or deciding it is so inherently superior to biological life that it must assume control of the world for its own good (since humanity clearly isn’t doing a very good job of it).