Fortissimo
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Poor 2 Average 3 Average 3 Fair 4 Fair 4 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Performance (Singing) Master Power (Sonic Control) Expert
QUALITIES
Center of Attention Loves the Good Life Powerful Voice
POWERS
Sonic Control: Fortissimo’s enhanced vocal abilities give him Incredible (7) Sonic Control, able to unleash a deafening blast of sound against anyone in extended range.
His considerable vocal training also gives Fortissimo a broad range of control over the uses of his power, including the extras of Blast (Burst), Corrosion (Ranged, Limited to crystalline objects), Defensive (deflecting “wall” of vibrations), and Ventriloquism.
BACKGROUND
Frederico D’Angelo was one of the most formidable voices the opera world had seen in a generation—and he knew it. D’Angelo’s reputation as a stellar performer was exceeded only by his reputation as difficult, demanding, and arrogant. He commanded the very best and, when he
didn't get it, everyone was aware of his displeasure. D’Angelo was also infamous for his enjoyment of his wealth and fame. He loved fine food, beautiful companionship, and more than a few drinks to wash it all down.
So it was that when Frederico managed to drive his fancy new sports- car off the road and into a tree, the opera world was not overly surprised, nor was it especially sympathetic, save for the news that the great singer had suffered an injury to his throat, possibly silencing his powerful voice forever.
But the great Frederico D’Angelo would not accept such a fate. He would pay any price, to anyone, to restore his voice. So he was willing to use certain connections, and to undergo an experimental and highly illegal procedure to implant a set of bionic vocal cords along with an amplifier and vocoder system. After a mysterious absence from the opera scene, D’Angelo returned in a swirl of rumors about his status and his future as a performer.
The procedure worked—all too well. Where once D’Angelo’s voice was powerful now it was truly earth-shattering. His fortissimo, his loudest note, was literally able to bring the house down. The revelation of his strange new powers and their effect on his signing, to say nothing of the start of criminal investigations into how he acquired them, drove Frederico D’Angelo over the edge. They could not do this to him! He would not be driven off the stage! If they would cast him as the villain, then so be it!
Since that fateful day, Fortissimo (as he prefers to be known) has continued to indulge in his legendary love of the good life, but his “performances” have changed to become daring operatic robberies and occasional work as a mercenary for organized crime. Fortissimo fancies himself a crime-lord, and he’s especially fond of robbing the sorts of venues he once played: grand opera houses and theaters, especially in the midst of performances. Anyone who gets in his way can count on being literally “shouted down” and Fortissimo still knowns how to “bring the house down” when he needs to cover his escape.
Although Fortissimo works with allies from time to time, he remains a spotlight hog and the center of attention, so his associations tend to be temporary, at best. He’s interested in means to enhance his already incredible vocal powers, but tends to spend his ill-gotten gains as quickly as he acquires them, so such opportunities rarely arise.