Gargantuan
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Average 3 Fantastic 9 Poor 2 Average 3 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
None
QUALITIES
Gargantuan Alien Robot Long Forgotten Mission Programmed to Guard
POWERS
Gargantuan: Gargantuan is some fifty feet tall, having Fantastic (9) Growth with the Constant limit. It has a –3 modifier to defense due to being such a large target, but Fantastic Damage Resistance.
Robot Form: Gargantuan is an advanced robot, possessing Supreme (10) Life Support and Resistance to Mental Powers affecting living or biological minds, as opposed to machines. It even has Fair (4) Resistance to machine-affecting powers, due to its anti-intrusion countermeasures.
Sensors: Gargantuan is equipped with Super-Senses, including Comprehend Languages (universal translator), Enhanced, Infrared, and Ultraviolet Vision, Direction and Time Sense, and Tracking Sense for “locking on” to targets.
BACKGROUND
Long ago, some forgotten alien empire placed a small installation on a primitive planet, the third from its sun. They set a robot sentry to watch over and guard the facility. Its resemblance to the local life forms might have been coincidental, due to similarities with its alien makers, or deliberate in order to evoke some sort of reaction from the natives. Whatever the case, the aliens abandoned the facility long before recorded human history even began. They never decommissioned its robot guard, however. It sat and silently waited for millennia, its mission to watch and to guard.
Some primitives came to worship it as a god and idol, making offerings and even building around it, learning the hard way the price of drawing its “wrath” by venturing too close to the forbidden places of its domain. Even their civilization eventually peaked and fell, reclaimed by time and nature, and history buried the alien installation and its silent guardian.
When archeologists discovered the site, they also found the “statue” they described as “gargantuan” and soon thereafter learned that the statue was nothing of the sort. The sentry’s programming had degraded over the long period of inactivity, even as its self-repair systems kept it operational. It immediately identified the new intruders and sought to deal with them, but just as quickly discovered the site it was set to guard was gone.
The robot’s limited logic circuits determined that its intended charge had somehow moved, and it left the area in search of it, damaged programming unclear as to exactly what it was looking for, only that it was meant to guard something against intruders, and that the planet it was on seemed overrun with them. As it approached populated areas, news reports about “the Gargantuan” from the surviving archeological team hit the airwaves.
Gargantuan is a protector without a purpose, but unable to stop or abandon its programming. The creators who knew how to control it or shut it down are long gone. The giant alien robot tends to fixate on different places or even people or things it is meant to “guard” and then zealously protects them from “unauthorized intruders.” Its universal translation systems have monitored enough terrestrial transmissions that it understands spoken and written language, but it is difficult to reason with, since it is not particularly smart, nor capable of acknowledging its programming is faulty. Less scrupulous types sometimes look to take advantage of Gargantuan’s “gullible” nature and single-minded focus, turning them to their own advantage.
