General Gorn
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Great 6 Fair 4 Amazing 8 Average 3 Fair 4 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Military Wrestling
QUALITIES
“By the Earth’s Molten Heart!” Fiery Temper
Warlord of the Molten Men
POWERS
Heat Generation: Gorn can emit an Aura of Great (6) heat from his body.
Stone Structure: His silicate body gives Gorn Fair (4) Damage Resistance, Fantastic (9) Heat Resistance, and Fair (4) Life Support, making him immune to heat, pathogens, pressure, and toxins.
BACKGROUND
It is difficult to be a warrior without a war, without enemies to fight. For uncounted millennia, the Molten Men have dwelled in the depths of the Earth’s mantle, close to the heat of the planet’s core. They long since tamed the other creatures of their underworld realm, leaving the warrior-class little more than a ceremonial role in protecting the nobility and training their offspring in the arts of combat, dying arts.
So it was that the ambitious Gorn, acknowledged as one of the greatest warriors of his people, seized upon an incursion from the upper-world. A massive drill, digging deeper than ever before in search of minerals and geothermal power sources, intruded into Molten territory. The nobility wished to reach out, to negotiate and learn more of what the upper- worlders wanted. They wanted to waste valuable time when they should have been mounting a defense of their people and domain!
So Gorn took drastic action: arranging for the envoy their leaders sent to be trapped in a collapsing gallery, and for a powerful explosion to destroy the high fortress of the nobility. Under attack from all sides, the people chose Gorn as their warlord, to lead them into battle against the aggressors. Warlord Gorn intends for the Molten Men to erupt into the upper world with a fury that will live in legend for generations, emblazoning his name in fire and establishing his right to rule!
The first indications the heroes get of Gorn’s ambitions are problems with the deep drilling site: unexplained collapses and mechanical failures holding up the project. Naturally, the project’s director is under pressure to show progress, and intends to push through regardless. Investigating heroes might hear rumors and stories about “something alive” on the far end of the drill-shafts, or encounter the lone Molten Man sent to entreat and negotiate with the upper-worlders. Naturally, Gorn cannot risk anyone knowing his intentions until he is ready to launch an attack, so the Warlord may attempt to capture or eliminate the heroes first.
The battle boils to the surface as the Molten Men attack! Drilling sites become beachheads of an invasion from deep within the Earth, with Gorn leading the forces that erupt near the heroes. The other Molten Men warriors have similar traits, all one level lower than Gorn’s, making them formidable foes. In particular, they are immune to many common weapons due to their rocky hides and radiate enough heat to make them hard to handle and able to burn through almost anything, given time. Along with blunting the invasion, the heroes must prove to the Molten Men that the upper-worlders are not aggressors and mean them no harm.
Even if Gorn is deposed from leadership of his people, some choose to follow him into exile. The fiery warlord will not forget the heroes responsible for his downfall, and will look to establish himself in a new power-base deep in the under-earth. There he will hatch schemes to devastate the upper-world with a series of earthquakes and volcanic eruptions in retribution. The surface dwellers will either be wiped out, or will have to respond to the attack from below, forcing the Molten Men into war, whereupon they will turn back to their greatest military leader!
