Gila Master
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Great 6 Fair 4 Fair 4 Great 6 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Athletics Occult Stealth
QUALITIES
Hungers for Power
Poisonous Traitor
Sworn to Destroy the Chosen One
POWERS
Reptile Control: Gila-Master can exert Incredible (7) Mind Control over reptiles of all kinds.
These are most commonly desert dwelling snakes and lizards, although can just as easily be crocodiles or even dinosaurs.
Venom: Gila-Master’s bite (Fair slashing damage) is poisonous, a Great (6) Affliction effect. He can also spit his venom at a target within extended range for the same effect.
Wall-Crawling: Like a gecko, Gila-Master can cling to walls and other surfaces with Good (5) ability.
BACKGROUND
Gil Lonescale was always a bit of a snake, but Tom Crow, the medicine man of his tribe, saw some potential in him and tried to untwist Gil’s path and spirit. When Tom’s other student, the slow-witted Daniel Morningstar, became Saguaro, Gil was consumed with jealousy and rage: That power was meant to be his! He deliberately went out into the desert himself, seeking power and the favor of the spirits, demanding his birthright, and got the bite of an irradiated lizard. As the venom burned through his body, the sinister spirits he called upon transformed Gil into a reptile man able to spit the venom that was in his heart and command the scaly creatures of the world. The Gila-Master, as he renamed himself, swore he would destroy the “Chosen of the Spirits” and claim that power and potential for himself!
Gila-Master is obsessed with two things: Destroying his enemy Saguaro and increasing and extending his powers, particularly through the acquisition of ancient occult and Native American lore and artifacts. In particular, you can give Gila-Master other situational powers based on his latest acquisitions, often as stunts of his reptile control or venom powers, extending his influence to other types of minds or spirits, or transforming his vile venom into other deadly or baneful effects through the right rituals. He may even combine the two, such as turning his venom into a subtle poison that infects its victims, slowly transforming them into reptile people like himself and placing them under his mental control.
In your own series, Gila-Master may be obsessed with another hero in addition to or instead of Saguaro. This is particularly true of any Native American heroes, but can extend to magical, mystical, or nature-based characters, especially those with the kind of special destiny Gila-Master wants for himself. He’ll set out to humiliate his foes, after stealing everything he can of their knowledge and power for himself.
Heroes may encounter Gila-Master stealing ancient Native artifacts or lore from museums or tribal trusts, or simply stealing cash and valuables to fund his other criminal activities. The may also run into him as he tries to put those resources to work in expanding his power and influence. Gila-Master may take advantage of the relative isolation of tribal reservations to work his schemes, perhaps covertly taking over tribal land and turning it into his private cult, or performing a ritual to separate it from the outside world altogether, transforming it into a fantasy reality under his control, where outside heroes may face challenges in using their powers or abilities without the aid of the local spirits, some of whom want to see Gila-Master and his evil spirit allies stopped.