Grudge
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Fair 4 Amazing 8 Poor 2 Average 3 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Science (as Parnell Tarrant)
QUALITIES
Fueled by Rage “Grudge Smash!” Will Not Let Go
POWERS
Damage Resistance: Grudge’s tough hide and muscle give him Good (5) resistance to all damage.
BACKGROUND
Dr. Parnell Tarrant wasn’t loved, or even liked, but he was respected—a capable scientist and researcher, but a man who knew how to hold a grudge, and how to repay every small slight, which made him almost impossible to work with once you got on his bad side.
Dr. Tarrant spent most of his time working in the field of radiation and its effects on cellular mutation, and in cataloging and reviewing the ever- growing list of people whom he’d show up one day. Then came the accident: fired up with anger, careless with rage, and exposed to his own radiation bombardment, Tarrant’s cellular makeup transformed. Dr. Tarrant no longer just held a grudge, he was Grudge, and he would show them...show them all! He smashed his way out of the lab and out onto the streets, bellowing his rage for the world to hear.
Since that fateful day, Parnell Tarrant has been a prisoner of his grudge- holding nature literally as well as figuratively. He periodically reverts to his original form, that of human scientist, but it is only a short matter of time before sometime triggers his transformation back into the monstrous and furious Grudge. As Parnell Tarrant, he has a Fair Intellect and only Average Prowess and Strength. Tarrant is torn between looking for a cure or way to prevent himself from ever becoming Grudge again, and wanting to harness the tremendous power of his alter-ego, placing it under his control and retaining his full intellect and awareness during the transformation.
Grudge himself is fueled solely by rage and subconscious recollections of Tarrant’s lengthy list of grievances, which lead the pale powerhouse to attack scientific laboratories and corporations, centers of higher learning, and seemingly random targets like the drive-thru where Tarrant got bad service that one time, or the bank that once turned him down for a small business loan. The authorities have tried to compile a profile of all of the potential targets of Grudge’s fury, but the list is simply too long and Parnell Tarrant tended to keep his grudges to himself— although not any longer.
Grudge is normally a straightforward menace: He flips out, goes on a rampage, and the heroes have to intervene to contain him until the authorities can come and put him (or his human alter ego) away for a while. If the heroes can figure out the focus of his latest grudge, they can gain a quality they can use to help deal with him.
Other criminals are also known to manipulate the dim-witted Grudge to use him as an ally or pawn. They may prey on his anger, convincing him that working with them will get him the satisfaction he wants, particularly if they can ally against heroes who have defeated him before. It almost goes without saying that one of his ongoing grudges will quickly become the heroes who stopped him and put him away. Other villains, like Earworm or Ultra-Mind, are far less subtle, simply using Mind Control to turn Grudge into a weapon they can point in whatever direction they want. Naturally, Grudge is none to fond of this sort of treatment—if he remembers it at all, he’ll also add those villains to his never-ended grudge list.
Lastly, heroes might come across Grudge as Dr. Parnell Tarrant, supposedly gathering resources to cure himself of his furious alter-ego, but actually looking to strengthen and stabilize Grudge so he can fully control his abilities and consciously apply them to ticking off items on his hit-list.
P
