Hotaru
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Fair 4 Great 6 Fair 4 Average 3 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Firefly Suit Weapons Expert Stealth
Technology
QUALITIES
Daring Thief
Enjoys the High Life Yakuza Ties
POWERS
Firefly Suit: Hotaru’s powers come from the prototype “Firefly” suit he wears. The suit’s systems increase his Strength from Average to Great and it provides him with Great (6) Damage Resistance and Life Support (ignoring breathing, cold, heat, pressure, radiation, and vacuum). With its wings and anti-gravity system, the suit is capable of Great (6) Flight and Hotaru’s adjustments to its solar collectors give it Great (6) Light Control, including the Blast and Dazzle effects. The suit’s helmet is equipped with Great sensors (Super-Senses) including a communication system, direction sense, infrared and ultraviolet vision, and enhanced vision (+2 to Awareness tests).
BACKGROUND
Katakara Jiro was a relatively low-level technical engineer for Project: Firefly, designing an advanced exploration and all-environment suit for Honshu Corporation. The suit was designed around extremely efficient

photovoltaic collectors for solar power and energy storage, and useful for space extra-vehicular activity as well as exploration, search and rescue, and other operations. Jiro felt he understood the ins and outs of the “Hotaru” prototype better than anyone, even if his superiors didn’t always listen to his advice.
Jiro soothed his frustrations at work with his leisure time. Unfortunately, an excess of leisure saw him indebted to the Yakuza—deeply indebted. Jiro could never earn the money he needed to pay off his debts on his own, but them he saw some other uses for the Hotaru suit, and seized them, making secret upgrades and adjustments to the solar collectors, allowing them to project powerful photonic blasts or cascades from the gauntlets or sensor pods of the helmet. The prototype disappeared from Honshu’s high-security lab one night, and the criminal career of Hotaru, the Firefly, began.
Jiro quickly accumulated enough cash to pay off the Yakuza and even impressed them with his ability to do so. He also discovered that he enjoyed the freedom and power the Firefly suit gave him. He could simply take what he wanted and enjoy the fruits of his success, at least until he spent it all and, wondering how he’d managed it, began looking for his next score.
With the authorities and Honshu Corp hot on his heels in Japan, Hotaru has used his Yakuza ties to get out of the country and become an international thief and criminal, pulling off jobs in Australia, South America, and North America. He sometimes works as a mercenary, stealing for various clients, but he won’t take para-military or combat assignments. He’s a thief, not a soldier-for-hire. Other times he pulls off jobs on his own, or puts together a temporary gang to help achieve a big score. The Yakuza always knows where to find him, and has been known to call on his help from time to time.
Hotaru is a small man on a power trip, enjoying his ability to take and have what he wants, and the respect his newfound power gives him in the criminal underworld. He’s something of a coward when it comes to confrontation, preferring to flee if he’s caught in the act, and fighting only when cornered or unable to escape. Still, he’s selfish enough to use his abilities to create distractions for heroes, such as blasting buildings, bridges, or blinding drivers in traffic, if it allows him time to escape. He loves living the jet-setting high-life, and heroes may encounter him enjoying casinos, exclusive clubs, and fancy parties, often while he’s also casing them for a robbery later once he’s had his fun.