Incognito
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Great 6 Good 5 Fair 4 Fair 4 Good 5 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Deception Master Martial Arts Expert Stealth Expert
QUALITIES
Always Pays His Debts Devious to the Extreme Master of the Thousand Faces
POWERS
Disguise: Incognito can assume the appearance of any humanoid subject with Incredibly (7) ability as a reaction. The transformation includes whatever he happens to be wearing (meaning he can either transform his clothing or the “clothing” is itself somehow a part of him). It is detailed down to things like fingerprints, retinal patterns, and voice- prints, allowing Incognito to slip past many security systems. It even includes the ability to reshape his brain or mind in various ways; psychics and others who fail to overcome his Incredible mental defenses perceive only what Incognito chooses.
Gadgets: Incognito has various Fair (4) level gadgets he uses, including a baton or staff, climbing grapple, or smoke or flash pellets, sufficient to provide him with a momentary distraction to slip away and change his appearance to disappear into a crowd.
BACKGROUND
No one knows what the infamous underworld figure known only as “Incognito” really looks like, or where he came from. No one knows if “he” is even a he, in fact. All that is known about Incognito is that he is a spy, thief, and assassin capable of looking like anyone. This power has allowed him to slip past some of the tightest security in the world, and to continue to evade capture.
Clients contact Incognito through various blind-drops, anonymous emails, and other temporary communications links. Payments in the millions of dollars or euros are deposited in secret overseas accounts, although Incognito sets his own rates and chooses his own jobs. The very few would-be clients who made the mistake of thinking otherwise learned to regret it in their final moments.
Heroes may encounter Incognito in the midst of carrying out one of his missions. In fact, they may encounter him multiple times without immediately realizing the strange spate of skilled espionage agents are all actually the same person, looking different each time. One of Incognito’s common scams is to pose as a law enforcement authority to “take charge” of a prisoner from the heroes, then turning around and releasing the villain (his client) and disappearing before the real authorities turn up.
A connection or supporting character quality for the heroes can really begin to earn its keep when Incognito kidnaps and replaces that character. The heroes start to notice the criminal underworld anticipating their activities, as if they knew in advance what the heroes were going to do. As it becomes increasingly clear they have a spy in their midst, the heroes need to figure out exactly who it is before Incognito decides the jig is up and tries to abscond with whatever useful information and items he can get from the team’s headquarters. If one of your players is willing to play along, Incognito might even replace their character for a time to spy on the team! He’ll choose a gimmick or trained hero he can imitate relatively easily (perhaps with the aid of some stolen or covert devices).
Incognito may also take to committing crimes while looking like the various heroes, faking their powers with special effects as needed. The police have to investigate, and it may be difficult for the heroes to clear their names from the inside of a jail cell. Do they cooperate with the authorities, leaving Incognito and the rest of the criminal element free to do as they please while the good guys are incarcerated, or do they defy the law in order to try and clear their own names?