Lady Dread
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Fair 4 Average 3 Average 3 Fair 4 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Animated Dreads Expert Athletics
Criminal
QUALITIES
Hair-Raising
Lost and Alone Searching for Her Past
POWERS
Animated Dreads: Lady Dread’s long and full dreadlocks can animate and elongate at her mental command.
Her dreads have Incredible (7) Strength and Stretching powers, able to reach out to extended distance. The dreads are also effectively Incredible Material. If severed or otherwise damaged, they regrow quickly to their normal length and fullness, restored fully in between chapters.
Lady Dread can use her animated locks to strike or wrestle with Incredible ability, to vault or carry her over obstacles or up walls like the Leaping and Wall-Crawling powers, and to defend against physical attacks with Incredible ability.
BACKGROUND
“Hey, Lady Dread!” the voice called to her. “Whatchu got under all that hair...? Lemme see.” She didn’t know who he was, or where she was. All she knew was that her hair responded to the need to keep the strange man away in a most forceful way. After it grabbed him and hurled him into the brush, he and his friends were quick to run away, shouting about how she was a freak. Was she? It didn’t seem strange to her, but she didn’t know. She didn’t know anything about who she was or how she came to be in that park so late at night. All she knew then was she could protect herself and what they called her—Lady Dread.
Since then, she has used the power of her animated locks to get by. She doesn’t trust the authorities, doesn’t trust anyone, really, and her time living outside the law has taught her that she’s entirely right. She steals and works with criminals, not really considering herself one, although she has committed crimes. She is doing what she needs to in order to survive and to try and find out more about who she is and where she came from.
The others who have worked with her say Lady Dread certainly carries herself with a sense of importance for someone who doesn’t even know her own name. While she does what’s necessary, Lady Dread has standards. She won’t kill, and she prefers to do as little harm as possible, but she has no problems stealing, and tends to feel it is her due to take what she needs. She’s willing to work with others, and even follow a strong and capable leader, but she’s nobody’s servant and expects her associates to respect her and her standards.
WHO IS LADY DREAD?
It’s up to the Game Master exactly who Lady Dread is and where she comes from. Possibilities include:
• Nobility from a mysterious hidden civilization of people with super- powers in Africa or the Caribbean, where there are others like her.
• An escaped experimental test subject, her memory wiped deliberately or by the trauma of the experiments.
• An alien exile on Earth, her memory deliberately blocked as part of her sentence, or accidentally by the trauma or her arrival.
• The vessel of occult forces, perhaps connected with Baron Kriminel and Voodoo, which caused her memory loss.