Legion
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
Guns Military
QUALITIES
Maze of Secrets
My Name Is Legion, for We Are Many Secret Leader
POWERS
Equipment: Legion soldiers are equipped with various weapons, typically Fair (4) blasting or shooting weapons, sometimes heavier weapons for small teams of squads of soldiers. See Devices in ICONS or Great Power for options.
Self-Destruct: Some Legion soldiers are “programmed” to self-destruct in a burst of flames, burning instantly to ash, if they are defeated or captured, or break-down during interrogation, to ensure the organizations secrets are kept.
BACKGROUND
Two well-dressed figures meet at an expensive café, one a long-time Senator, the other a captain of industry. Their meeting would appear to

be about lobbying interests—the “cost of doing business” as they say— until they lean close and one whispers, “My name is Legion.”
“For we are many,” the other relies. The message is received. The plan is underway. Later that day, masked soldiers attack the business rival of the captain of industry and the Senator takes to the floor to call for tighter government restrictions on travel and “disruptive foreign elements”.
They are Legion. They are everywhere.
THE SECRET LEADER
The hooded and masked figure known only as the Secret Leader appears to be the master of the vast ranks of Legion, issuing commands via shadowy communication links and secret meetings. Exactly who (or what) the Secret Leader may be remains a mystery: an infamous terrorist, a diabolical agent of the apocalypse, or a front for another villain?
WHAT IS LEGION?
The true nature and goals of Legion are left for the GM to decide for an individual Icons series. They are, on the face of it, your classic cultist masked terrorist organization, but their real nature and motives could be any number of things.
Mundane: Legion may simply be a mundane terrorist organization run by a cabal of influential and unscrupulous individuals looking to sow chaos in the world for their own benefit. The Secret Leader may be one of them, or just a front for their control over the organization.
Mystical: It’s no coincidence that Legion uses demonic catchphrases from the Bible, as they are really a secret infernal cult, dominated by people who have sold their souls in exchange for power and now do the bidding of hellish forces that would see the world corrupted before it burns and falls into the pit forever.
Mad Science: The mystical mumbo-jumbo is just a cover for Legion’s real resources: science and technology far beyond that of even the governments they oppose. Their soldiers are brainwashed puppets, some of them not even fully aware they serve the Legion until their code-phrases are activated, and their weapons are greater than most people know.
