Monkey Business
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Great 6 Weak 1 Fair 4 Fair 4 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Athletics
QUALITIES
Independent Group
Than a Barrel Full of Monkeys There’s Always One More
POWERS
Duplication: Monkey Business has Cosmic (20) level Duplication powers (see Icons A to Z), able to “split” into up to 20 copies of herself, each with the same abilities and memories. Monkey Business has the Instant, Mental Link, Multiple, and Real Duplicates extras, meaning she can create up to her maximum number of duplicates in a single panel, and all of the duplicates share consciousness. If even one survives, she survives.
Group Mind: Monkey Business’s duplicates form a kind of collective mind, enhancing “their” mental powers: +1 level for 2 duplicates, and +1 level per doubling of duplicates thereafter to +5 levels for 16 or more.
Telekinesis: Monkey Business has Weak (1) Telekinesis, but her Group Mind can enhance them up to Great (6).
Telepathy: Likewise, Monkey Business has Weak (1) Telepathy, which her Group Mind can enhance up to Great (6).
BACKGROUND
Confeder-Ape absconded with a head full of knowledge about primate enhancement experimentation and a desire to liberate his fellow apes from human domination and mere animal savagery. Why he particularly chose to experiment on a female rhesus monkey, only he knows. Perhaps because she was a “liberated” test subject herself, already primed for certain genetic and cerebral changes.
Whatever the case, Confeder-Ape was looking to create a “one-monkey military” capable of rapid “deployment” via duplication, along with sufficient psychic sensitivity to respond like a single mind under his military direction. He succeeded, but should have reckoned with the independence of a newly intelligent mind, especially one that agreed with her selves and effectively outnumbered him.
The experimental subject Confeder-Ape called “Miss June” decides that she was no lady, nor was she subject to orders from some big brute. Her collective mind overwhelmed Confeder-Ape’s influence and she struck out on her own, ignoring bellowed psychic orders to return. When a swarm of well-coordinated monkeys began committing robberies, the term “Monkey Business” was splashed across headlines and enter the public consciousness, and June’s as well.
The first order of Monkey Business was and is survival: acquisition of food, shelter, resources, and information. Well acquainted with the notion of “life” in a laboratory, she avoids capture by humans at any cost. Fortunately, in this day and age, it’s amazing what you can order off the internet for delivery without anyone having to see who is there to pick it up. Likewise, it’s impressive what a gang of psychically-linked monkeys can achieve by way of breaking-and-entering.
Beyond that, Monkey Business primarily wants to satisfy her own curiosity, avoid being drawn back into Confeder-Ape’s orbit (or his Lost Cause), and perhaps contemplate what to do with her newfound life. Unfortunately, Monkey Business doesn’t have a very kind view of humanity, and the ultimate ascendance of other simians is about the only thing she and Confeder-Ape agree on. Since she prefers her “own company,” Monkey Business may look into ways to expand her powers, imagining an ideal world inhabited solely by duplicates of herself, linked in a vast collective consciousness with psionic powers capable of reaching out to the stars themselves.
