Nepenthe
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Average 3 Incredible 7 Great 6 Incredible 7 Fantastic 9
SPECIALTIES
Mind Control Expert
QUALITIES
The Green Conqueror Grows like a weed
Many Roots and Branches The Star-Seed
POWERS
Giant Plant: Nepenthe is a giant, alien plant, nearly 30 feet tall at full growth, giving it Incredible (7) Strength, Damage Resistance, and vine- like tentacles (Extra Body Parts). It also has Supreme (10) Life Support, able to survive in any environment.
Pollen: Nepenthe can emit various types of pollen, affecting living creatures. It can use pollen to create a Good (5) Affliction to a single target or in a close range burst, and it can emit pollen with Incredible (7) Mind Control effects.
BACKGROUND
Explorer and biologist Sergei Lysenko discovered the mysterious seed pod buried in a deep layer of ice in the Antarctic. Recent shifts in the ice shelf due to global climate change uncovered millennia-old layers, which Dr. Lysenko and his colleagues believed would yield tremendous

knowledge about ancient ecology. The seed was about the size and shape of an American football, with a dark brown casing harder than iron. Lysenko and his team took some initial readings, including X-rays. But before they could report their findings, the entire twelve-person team vanished. Russian military personnel found the abandoned outpost, several of its vehicles missing. There were signs of a struggle, but no indication what caused it. They collected what evidence there was, and the Kremlin classified all of the materials.
A few months later, BevCo International launched “Nepenthe,” its newest energy drink. The green, fizzy concoction, with its “patented secret formula” took the world by storm. Supermarket and convenience store shelves were regularly cleared out of stocks of the new beverage, and people raved about its health and personal benefits
Deep in a top-secret greenhouse controlled by the company lies the secret of their new energy drink’s success: “Nepenthe” is not its true name, if indeed it has one as we understand language. Nor was the Antarctic its true home. No, the seed recovered by Dr. Lysenko is from much further away, and has waited, buried beneath the ancient ice, a very long time. It is known by many names on many different worlds: the Sweet Mercy, the Star-Seed, That Which Drives Away Sorrow, the Blossom of Bliss, and the Green Conqueror. The root-plant is mass of deep, powerful roots and vines like bridge cables, capable of moving like tendrils. The central blossom exudes a sweet, heady scent able to lure prey into its clutches, and the acidic liquid within the blossom digests minerals and animal proteins.
The true power of Nepenthe, however, is its pollen; a golden-green substance that infiltrates other organisms. It has a euphoric effect, boosting energy levels and creating general feelings of happiness and well-being. More importantly, it binds its host to the parent plant and makes them suitable receptacles for the pollination and fertilization cycles. When the time is right, those who have ingested Nepenthe’s pollen become like extensions of it. They secure the plant’s territory and capture other creatures for it. Eventually, Nepenthe releases clouds of spores. They kill the animals hosts and allow new plants to germinate from their remains. A growing web of greenery covers and consumes the world. Then the planets germinate and expend the last of their energy firing countless seeds out into space. They may travel for millennia before they encounter a suitable biosphere in which they can take root, beginning the cycle anew.
