Nonstop
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Fair 4 Average 3 Fair 4 Average 3 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
Martial Arts Technology
QUALITIES
Can’t Stop Now Non-Linear Time After Time
POWERS
Time-suit: Nonstop’s suit gives him Amazing (8) Time Control, limited to himself; the suit’s time-distortion field doesn’t extend beyond it and its wearer.
The suit allows him to duplicate the powers of Fast Attack and Super- Speed, plus the Super-Speed extras of Defending and Surface Speed. It gives him Time Travel as well, although use of the last power is ultimately the cause of Nonstop’s problems, although that hasn’t stopped him from using it.
BACKGROUND
Do you have a moment in your life you would go back and change, if you could? While many people ask themselves that question, Michael Kim was given the opportunity to actually do it, and he took it. A

technician working with a top-secret experimental time-suit design at some undisclosed point in the future, Michael stole the suit and jumped back to a point when he was a teenager in order to prevent his best friend from perishing in a car accident. Unfortunately, Michael didn’t reckon with the complexities of tampering with history. Although he was successful, his younger self suffered injuries that left him a quadriplegic, paralyzed from the neck down.
That Michael didn’t suffer the repercussions of his actions suggested he was now living in an alternate timeline of his own creation, and he set about trying to alter circumstances again to fix things, without crossing his own personal time-line, an event which could have unknown but disastrous effects, from what he knew of the time-suit’s research and design.
So the mysterious masked and suited figure became involved in sightings and unusual incidents. When confronted by a hero more than thirty years ago—relatively early on Michael’s personal timeline—he said he “can’t stop now,” earning him the nickname “Nonstop” among heroes and authorities, who still don’t know who Nonstop is or when he is from, although it has since (from the linear perspective of our timeline) become clear that he’s a time-traveler.
Nonstop appears at a particular point in time and then works out a plan to manipulate events in order to “right” the flow of history in the way that he wants. It can range from ensuring certain people meet or causing (or preventing) events, from the obscure to the disastrous. The events usually connect with his own timeline in some fashion, but the link can be a considerable distance away in both space and time. The lead-up to his plan may require gathering information and resources, usually stolen using his time-distorting speed and technical skills. If he is able to achieve his goal, he spends some time evaluating its effect before time-jumping again.
Nonstop uses his suit’s time-travel capabilities as little as possible, as he’s discovered that his timeline becomes increasingly tangled, and his efforts to manipulate events increasingly complex the more he does it. There’s also considerable evidence that either the process of time traveling or of tampering with history is having a negative effect on Nonstop’s sanity, as he sometimes appears quite irrational, but it’s unclear exactly when in his own timeline this happens.
Although Nonstop is primarily an oddball thief, it’s possible his temporal meddling could trigger a massive crisis of the sort that could involve time travelers like Tempus Khan and Master Tulku.
