Paper Tiger
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Fair 4 Average 3 Average 3 Good 5 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Business Origami Master
QUALITIES
Clever Hands and Mind Honorable Triad Boss Something Up His Sleeve
POWERS
Origami Servants: Paper Tiger has the Incredible (7) power to transform any of the origami figurines he folds into life-sized, animate objects with the abilities of the actual creature or its, up to his power level.
So he can, for example, fold a literal paper tiger and bring it to life with the abilities of a lion from the Creatures section of the Game Mastering chapter of ICONS. He can likewise make various objects, from cages to walls and more of Incredible material. Any creatures he creates and animates are under his mental control and obey his commands.
BACKGROUND
Liang Dian Nuo (also known by the Anglicized name “Daniel Liang”) was born in Hong Kong and educated abroad. He learned that his father’s

many “business interests” involved close ties with the Chinese Triads, including smuggling operations out of Hong Kong and Chinese coastal cities to places all over the world. His father appreciated Daniel’s keen intellect, and indulged his son’s love of art, to a point, but also expected Daniel to fulfill his family obligations and eventually take over the business.
As a gift to win his son’s affections, the elder Liang gave Daniel part of a rare, old manuscript on origami paper-folding, which was his passion. It unlocked secrets undreamed of, “unfolding” in Daniel’s spirit a profound connection with his work. He learned how to literally breathe life into his creations! When a rival gang murdered his father, Daniel used his newfound power to avenge him and seize control of the birthright he once thought to reject.
Now, Hong Kong businessman Daniel Liang of Liang Imports International is known for his habit of folding little origami figures during meetings, and giving them as gifts and tokens of his esteem. What his rivals and associates alike don’t know is how those figurines can spy, steal, or even kill at their creator’s command. Meanwhile, the mysterious “Paper Tiger” of China is a force to be reckoned with in the criminal underworld, baffling police and easily eliminating potential rivals.
When heroes bust a smuggling warehouse controlled by the Triads, they run into some of Paper Tiger’s origami creations, left to deal with trouble. They get their first taste of the mysterious crime-lord’s powers and modus operandi, while Paper Tiger learns about the heroes and their interference in his business. He may decide to take steps to eliminate them as a threat, or at least to distract them with some more of his creations while his people move contraband in and out of the city.
The Tiger Triad may also cultivate alliances with other criminal gangs, or run up against competition, setting off a gang war. This could include super-gangsters like the Octofather or Chopper and his Road Warriors, amongst others. Paper Tiger uses one of his origami, a life-sized ancient Chinese warrior, complete with sword and armor, as his proxy for meetings and negotiations, leading some to believe the legendary “Paper Tiger” is a literal man of animated paper with a collection of origami followers!
Eventually, Liang Dian Nuo becomes aware of other fragments of the legendary origami codex he studied, in the possession of a museum, university, or private collector. A small army of life-sized origami monkeys and cranes try to steal the fragments, so Paper Tiger can study them in hopes of expanding or increasing his powers. He may seek out other artifacts or secrets, including rare forms of paper for his creations.
