Pulsar
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Great 6 Fair 4 Great 6 Fair 4 Fair 4 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
Military Expert Pilot Expert
QUALITIES
Cosmic Cosmonaut
Hero of the People’s Republic Time-lost Cold War Relic
POWERS
Blast: Pulsar can project Incredible (7) blasts of concentrated stellar energy.
Flight: Propelled by absorbed energy and control over gravitons, Pulsar can fly at Amazing (8) speed, equalling the fastest earthly aircraft.
Force Field: Pulsar’s body is surrounded by a protective field of Incredible (7) strength.
Regeneration: So long as he is exposed to light, Pulsar regenerates with Supreme (10) ability, recovering 1 Stamina per page.
Resistance to Light: Pulsar has Supreme (10) Resistance to Light Attacks, his body absorbing the radiant energy to further fuel his powers.
BACKGROUND
Sergei Volkov was a true patriot. He fervently believed in the cause of communism and joined the Soviet Air Force to “defend the motherland from capitalist imperialist aggression.” Sergei was an expert pilot, selected for cosmonaut training and the top secret “Project Pulsar.” Project Pulsar was an effort to create a Soviet Superhero, using unusual chemicals and radiation found in an approaching comet.
Sergei successfully piloted the experimental space vehicle into the comet’s wake, but something went wrong: The capsule exploded and the Program Director concluded Project Pulsar was a failure, that Captain Volkov was killed in action. As it turned out, the project succeeded, but not in the way anyone expected. The explosion tore a rift in the fabric of space-time and flung Captain Volkov back to Earth decades after he was believed to be dead, transformed by the cosmic forces he encountered.
Sergei expected to be hailed as a hero. However, when he touched down in Red Square, his red jumpsuit, emblazoned with the hammer and sickle, drew stares and mockery. The police quickly got involved and Sergei discovered to his horror that he had been transported somehow into a future where the proud Soviet Union was no more, and Mother Russia was quickly succumbing to the corruption of Western capitalism! After realizing who he was, the Russian government attempted to recruit Captain Volkov, but he refused to work for any corrupt government and fled Russia.
Since then, Volkov has adopted a new uniform and the name Pulsar, and fights a one-man struggle for the cause of a communist paradise in the world against the seemingly unstoppable tide of Western imperialism. Unfortunately, even China and Cuba find Pulsar too unstable and radical, and he is branded an international renegade and criminal. Worse yet, the imperialist United States exerts its influence everywhere.
Pulsar operates primarily as a super-criminal in the Western world, targeting capitalist institutions like banks, corporations, and symbols of American power and imperialism. True to his beliefs, Pulsar tends to commit “Robin Hood” style crimes, giving his ill-gotten gains away to “the proletariat” while singing the praises of communism and encouraging the workers to unite against their capitalist masters.