Rag-Tag
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Great 6 Great 6 Good 5 Fair 4 Great 6 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Insight Expert Wrestling
QUALITIES
A Stitch in Time Saves Nine Dark Patchwork
Ragged and Cast-Off
POWERS
Fabric Form: Rag-Tag is an animated collection of stitched together patches and swatches, stuffed with more rags and cast- off cloth.
This grants Rag-Tag Good (5) Damage Resistance to bashing damage, as its flexible form absorbs impacts and Good Regeneration as torn patches of cloth stitch themselves together. It has Total Life Support and Average (3) Leaping ability.
Life Drain: Rag-Tag has Average (3) Energy Drain with the Life Drain extra, able to draw on the life force of targets feeling strong emotion.
Sense Threads: Rag-Tag can perceive “threads” connecting people and things. It can see in the dark and has Telelocation and Tracking Sense when it is able to pick up on connecting threads.

BACKGROUND
The entity known as Rag-Tag began from an intended act of charity, the donation of old and used clothing to be patched, repaired, or cut up and turned into scraps and rags, but including certain pieces of cloth infused with energies and forces beyond mortal understanding. That fabric held the sufferings and sorrows of those who had touched it, and it reached out for more of its kind, finding threads and weaving connections, pulling discarded bits and pieces together, until a form, a figure arose. The police report talks about how someone—or something—apparently broke out of the storage facility, but without any signs of anyone breaking in, and only some old clothing and rags missing or stolen.
Since then, Rag-Tag has hunted in the shadows of the city, stalking victims whose emotions—sadness, guilty, hatred, envy, and more—drawn it like a moth to their flame. It often toys with them to stoke the fires of their feelings before it strikes, draining their life energy through whatever outer fabric or material that they wear, and then leaving an almost lifeless and comatose body missing a large patch of clothing torn away and incorporated into Rag-Tag’s patchwork form. In darker and more “street level” games, Rag-Tag’s victims may be left dead or permanently insane due to its attacks, while other series may allow the opportunity for the comatose victims to be saved, if Rag-Tag can be stopped and forced to surrender all that it has absorbed.
The Terrible Tatterdemalion poses another challenge for heroes in that its targets are often very bad people themselves. Rag-Tag can become the terror of criminals and wrong-doers in the worst parts of the city, leading authorities to tend to look the other way, and making some wonder if the creature isn’t doing the heroes’ work for them. Ultimately, however, Rag-Tag doesn’t go after just the guilty and it has no regard for the law or justice.
Rag-Tag’s exact nature is left for the Game Master to decide, if it should arise. Its animating force might be a ghost, demon, or other spiritual entity, especially if the catalyst cloth was from the clothing of a murder victim or some scrap from a ceremonial robe or the like. It could be a psychic entity, perhaps able to animate fibrous materials like cloth, and sustaining itself by feeding on emotions, or it could be something entirely alien. Likewise, it’s up to you whether or not Rag-Tag can truly be imprisoned or destroyed. If captured or defeated, it might collapse into a pile of lifeless rags, only to reanimate, or inhabit some other
patchwork collection of fabrics, at a later time.
