Rex Mundi
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Average 3 Average 3 Amazing 8 Fair 4 Incredible 7
SPECIALTIES
Leadership Mental Resistance
QUALITIES
Far in Advance Master of the World The Superior Man
POWERS
Armature: Rex Mundi wears an advanced adaptive support suit or “armature” from his home timeline. It provides him with Total Life Support and Incredible (7) Strength and Damage Resistance. The Armature also has nano-adaptive capabilities giving it an Amazing (8) Adaptation power to deal with hostile environments and threats, with the Defensive and Instant extras.
Gadgets: Rex Mundi has a Fantastic (9) ability to produce advanced gadgets and technology, including (but not limited to) Blast and Alteration Ray weapons and Dimensional Travel, Force Field, and Teleportation devices.
BACKGROUND
The man known as Rex Mundi was born Draco Spiridon on a parallel Earth where the Byzantine Empire never fell, but overcame its enemies and challenges, spreading Greco-Roman culture throughout the

Mediterranean and then the world. Western Europe never fell into a Dark Age and, by the equivalent of our modern era, the Empire was expanding into space and exploring and settling the solar system.
A deep space probe caught the attention of an expansionistic and militaristic alien race, and the humans of the Terran Empire reacted in the tradition of their ancestors: They armed for war. Unfortunately for the arrogant Terrans, the alien were more advanced both technologically and militarily, and the ensuing war devastated Earth’s solar system before the enemy armada closed in on the Terran home-world.
Dr. Spiridon, a brilliant scientist and engineer, used experimental quantum-tunneling technology to escape the final destruction of his home world. He initially thought he might flee into the past, able to change the sequence of events that brought about the fall of the Empire. Instead, however, he ended up on a different, more primitive, Earth, where a sustained Dark Age had slowed technological and cultural development. The world was balkanized, fractional, and chaotic, in need of a unifying force and a firm, guiding hand. Dr. Spiridon knew just who that should be.
Using the advanced technology of his home-world and his own brilliant technical skills, Spiridon adopted the name and identity of “Rex
Mundi” (Latin for “King of the World,” a semi-mystical figure from his own world’s mythology). He knows full well that the primitive people of this Earth will not easily set aside their superstitions or small ambitions to accept his rule, but no matter. He is the superior man, and his ascension is inevitable.
More importantly, Rex Mundi knows that his ascent is necessary: If this universe is at all like his own, there are grave threats to Earth and humanity out amongst the stars. Some of them have already discovered this world, leading to some narrow escapes. Rex Mundi is intent on ensuring his new world does not suffer the same fate as his last, no matter what it takes.
Originally from Gallia (analogous to our France) on his world, Rex Mundi speaks a version of Byzantine Latin as his native language, giving him a slight exotic accent, although he speaks numerous Earth languages, including English. He’s supremely arrogant and aristocratic—dealing with the ignorant “primitives” of this world tires him and tries his patience, but his sense of superiority and noblise oblige keeps him going to do what must be done.
