Rumor
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Average 3 Poor 2 Average 3 Fair 4 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Criminal Expert Mental Resistance Occult Expert Sleight of Hand
QUALITIES
Knowledge is Power
“Rumor has it...”
The Spirits Call in Their Debts
POWERS
Spirit Magic: Rosa has Great (6) power over spirits, both living and dead, provided she has some material connection to them, such as a part of the body (hair, blood, etc.) or a particularly prized possession. With this connection, she wields the following powers, all at level 6:
• Mind Reading: Rumor can read the subject’s mind and probe deeper to ferret out secrets, her prime stock in trade.
• Mind Control: She can exert influence over her subjects, causing them to fall into a trance and follow her commands, then awaken later with no memory of their actions.
• Curse: Finally, Rumor can lay a terrible curse upon a subject, causing them to suffer harm or just waste away, like the Affliction power with the Rangeless extra.
BACKGROUND
Born and raised in a poor neighborhood, Rosa Lopez learned at an early age you either took power and used it, or got used by those who had it. Fortunately, Rosa did have power, a birthright passed down to her by her grandmother, who told Rosa how the women of their family possessed certain gifts—which sometimes skipped generations.
Rumors spread throughout the neighborhood, and then the city. In fact, the mysterious figure willing to provide information and assistance at a price become known as “Rumor” herself and Rosa embraced both the name and the reputation. She initially needed to teach some object lessons to those who thought they could force her to take sides in their conflicts. The fates of those who tried showed others the error of that sort of thinking.
For years now, Rumor has been a “neutral party”—her talents available to those able and willing to meet her price, although it is not always strictly cash. Rumor often deals in favors, particularly those that spread her sphere of influence, or satisfy the needs of the spirits. Her clients are not always criminals, either. They include politicians, professionals, and celebrities looking to gain an advantage, or take out some “insurance”.
Rumor operates out of a small “Psychic Readings” parlor in her old neighborhood. She actually owns the whole block of buildings, and maintains a substantial apartment on the top floors. A minor psychic effect causes her parlor to go largely unnoticed unless a client is specifically seeking her out, so she knows when someone enters it is a matter of potential interest to her.
Rumor has mystic power over spirits, both embodied and discarnate, provided she has some strong material link to them: a DNA sample such as a lock of hair, nail clipping, or drop of blood, for example, or an object with a strong emotional tie. With this link, she can touch the subject’s spirit, delving into thoughts and memories, and twist the same to her will, or even tearing at the spirit’s fabric with a terrible curse.
In addition to her power over humans, Rumor’s power does affect both animals and disembodied spirits (like ghosts). She keeps a number of pets in her home, including a pair of crows and a black panther named Shirah (use the cheetah traits, without the Running specialty; eagle traits for the crows, reducing damage to 1) and uses pigeons and stray animals in the city to run errands and act as her spies. She sometimes binds a ghost to serve her for a time using some material link to its spirit.