Size Queen
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Fair 4 Average 3 Average 3 Fair 4 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Performance Expert
QUALITIES
Big Queen
Fierce and Fabulous Throwing Shade
POWERS
Growth: Size Queen has Fantastic (9) Growth powers, able to go from six to sixty feet tall, and gaining Fantastic Strength and Damage Resistance when doing so. Whatever she is wearing changes size along with her.
BACKGROUND
Lito “Lolita” Hernandez always wanted to be big, so be careful what you wish for. As Lolita, Lito performed in drag shows all over the West Coast, but particularly in Vegas, and had a shot at bigger stardom on television or online. For a poor kid from East Los Angeles, it was a dream worth doing anything to achieve. After all Lito had to do and go through to be Lolita...well, the world owed something, right?

It’s a toss up whether or not the radioactive isotopes were the world’s down-payment or not, but they certainly changed Lolita’s life forever. When a fight between the criminal syndicate that stole them and the authorities trying to recover them fractured the containment unit, Lolita got a good dose of the glowing dust, and quite the change in perspective. She became big, all right: so big that she busted through the roof of the building and kept on growing!
That first time, nobody knew what was happening. The “50-foot Queen of the Strip” did a lot of damage without really knowing what was happening. It was like a dream—or a nightmare—until the authorities and local heroes knocked her off her stiletto heels and literally took her down several dozen pegs. The size change didn’t last, but Lolita was able to do it again whenever she wanted. Interestingly, Lito Hernandez couldn’t—only as his drag alter-ego, which became increasingly, incessantly, demanding and independent in Lito’s mind.
Hernandez might have gotten off on a temporary insanity or reduced capacity plea, given the circumstances, if Lolita hadn’t become quite so concerned about what they were going to do: The authorities looking to perform tests, to take away the literal biggest chance she ever had. She was supposed to trust the system? What had the system ever done but treat her like a joke or a freak?
All it took was a wig and a touch of lipstick for the “Size Queen” to bust out of jail and disappear, shrugging off the cops’ gunfire like it was a shower of glitter. By the time Lito realized what had happened, it was too late. He couldn’t turn himself in. One way or another, the cops would put him away, either in prison or in a mental hospital, for good. He had to run, and that required cash and connections, and those things were a job for Size Queen.
Ever since, Lolita—as Size Queen—has become more and more the sole presence on the stage and in the spotlight, with Lito Hernandez almost as a forgotten afterthought. She’s strong, fierce, and fabulous and he’s weak and frightened and, well, a girl’s got to do what a girl’s got to do. A life lived as an outlaw takes money, and that takes a combination of daring robberies and some work as a mercenary or member of a criminal gang from time to time. The rest of the time in between is about spending some of that cash and enjoying everything life has to offer, while the poor suckers on the straight and narrow don’t know what they are missing.
