Sock Puppet
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Weak 1 Poor 2 Poor 2 Fair 4 Fair 4 Incredible 7
SPECIALTIES
Mental Resistance Technology Expert
QUALITIES
Never Lets Go
Needs to Get a Life Someone is WRONG!
POWERS
Puppetry: Sock Puppet has Amazing (8) powers of mind control, able to affect anyone in visual range who can hear him and, worse, anyone able to hear him even over an electronic broadcast. He can also focus his power to mentally inflict pain like a Fair (4) level Mental Blast.
BACKGROUND
People don’t want to be around Simon Arniss. They roll their eyes, get that glazed look, or glance around desperately for somewhere else to be. Especially girls. Fine. Simon got used to it. He was smart: earning excellent grades, then getting his Computer Science degree and becoming a well-paid programmer. He didn’t have a lot of expenses, other than his cable bill and his action figure habit.
The ‘net is Simon’s domain. Its countless forums, e-mail lists, and social networks are where he can go to discuss the things he cares about, like
just how bogus the changes they’ve made to the Sigma Squad series are, and what a rip-off the prices of new books, DVDs, and software are —especially when you can just download them! Stupid people just had to argue with him. He got banned. A lot. He found his way back in, using new names and aliases so often he got nicknamed “sock puppet”.
The poster who tipped him off to the pirate site said none of the designs there ever worked, but Simon knew he could take the plans for a direct neural interface and make it. He worked day and night, even letting his online games lapse, until it was done. The anonymous poster probably intended for Simon to fry his brain. What nobody counted on was the sudden surge changing Simon Arniss’ neurology in fundamental ways. He gained the ability to concentrate on someone and control them, virtually anywhere! Now “Sock Puppet” wins all the arguments, and people have to do what he says!
Got a player unable to show up for the game? Guess which hero just became Sock Puppet’s newest plaything ...? Sock Puppet takes over the hero’s mind and goes on a crime spree, or simply out for humiliating revenge against whomever he’s railing against that week. The hero’s compatriots have to stop their teammate while not inflicting any lasting harm and tracking down the source of the problem. This scenario also works with a Game Master character the heroes know. Sooner or later, Sock Puppet will probably have his mind-controlled minion bring something (or someone) directly to him, so smart heroes may be able to follow the trail and confront the nut-job wearing socks on his hands face-to-face.
Then Simon Arniss falls in love! He’s obsessed with a witty and charming blogger, but is far too “shy” to openly approach her. He would also never use his powers on her, as he wants their love to be something true and pure. So instead, he tries to win her over with a combination of creepy stalking behavior, anonymous gifts (often stolen, or purchased with stolen money), and using his powers to make things happen that he thinks will please her. Given that her blog is personal and often political, there’s the potential for things to go terribly wrong. The heroes may initial suspect Amy Yu—author of the blog “Yu Views”—as the person behind the incidents, until they realize she is just the focus. Then, when Amy posts a blog about the great new guy she just met, the kid gloves (but not the socks) are off!
