Speed Demon
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Good 5 Fair 4 Average 3 Average 3 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Athletics Drive
QUALITIES
Devilish
Faster Than Hell Outrunning His Past
POWERS
Hellfire Aura: When he moves, Speed Demon is surrounded by an aura (and a short-lived trail) of blazing flames, which do him no harm but inflict Good (5) damage on anyone touching him, allowing Speed Demon to strike in close combat for Great (6) fiery damage. He sometimes uses maneuvers to perform stunts with his hellfire, including throwing up walls of fire in his wake or flinging Blasts of fire at targets as he whips past them.
Super-Speed: Speed Demon can run and move at Amazing (8) speed, with the benefits of the Defensive and Fast Attack extras, making his Super Speed level the difficulty to hit him, and allowing him to make two additional close combat attacks each page at his Fair (4) Prowess level.
BACKGROUND
Eduardo Decascos had wealth, but craved excitement and challenge. He became a race car driver and nearly lost his life in a fiery crash.
Evacuation to a nearby clinic and an emergency blood transfusion saved his life—or perhaps it was Eduardo’s delusional “deal with the Devil” he claims to have experienced in the confused moments immediately after the crash. The blood transformed him, healing his injuries and causing him to move so fast that the air ignited around him, shrouding him in flames. He burned down the clinic and all records of his survival, allowing the world to believe he was dead when, in fact, he was reborn... as the Speed Demon!
After hiding out and practicing with his newfound abilities, Speed Demon embarked on a new life of excitement and challenge, a life of crime. He now works as an illegal courier, messenger, smuggler, and thief who is virtually impossible to catch, with a roguish, devil-may-care attitude.
Speed Demon loves his new life as a dashing super-criminal, flouting the law at will and spending his ill-gotten gains almost as quickly as he gets them. He’s even been known to lavish money and stolen goods on people in need, earning him a reputation as a modern-day “Robin Hood” in some areas, and garnering him fans willing to look the other way or lie to the authorities—or any heroes who come looking. Although he enjoys such adulation, no one who knows the real Speed Demon could mistake him for a philanthropist.
Speed Demon still loves to race, and will lead heroes on a merry chase through crowded city streets, zipping in and around traffic, through tight alleys and turns, and in and out of crowds of people, largely heedless of the hazards of his fiery wake and aura. If the “race” becomes too close, all it takes is a burning brush past some leaking fuel from a car wreck or a pile of flammable debris, or even a chase through a construction site or condemned building, to start an inferno to keep heroes busy while he makes good his escape.
Eduardo is also a devilish and relentless flirt, and make take opportunities to romance and spar with a hero or supporting character who catches his eye. Should it ever become more than mere flirtation, that could pose a real challenge for the swift criminal who refuses to be tied down.
The true origin of Speed Demons powers also remains unknown. Was there some X-factor in the blood he was given? Illegal experiments being conducted at the clinic? Or was Eduardo’s imagined “deal with the Devil” not so imaginary after all and, if so, what happens when that deal comes due?
P
