Talion
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Fair 4 Fair 4 Average 3 Good 5 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Guns Expert Martial Arts Military Master Stealth Expert
QUALITIES
“An Eye for an Eye”
A Hero to Some Fighting a War on Crime
POWERS
Equipment: Talion carries various weapons and equipment, including:
• Body Armor: Weak (1) Damage Resistance (plus see Taking Flak,
following).
• Guns: Various Good (5) shooting Blast devices.
• Knife: A military combat knife, an Average (3) slashing device.
BACKGROUND
Jorge Ramirez was born an American to immigrant parents, who taught him to be proud of his country and his heritage. He enlisted in the army, not just because it was a way out of the poor neighborhood where he grew up, but also because his country needed him, and it was the right thing to do. Even in basic training, Ramirez showed determination and
an unbreakable spirit. He worked his way into Special Forces training, including counter-insurgency and urban warfare, where he excelled.
The only thing more important than Lt. Ramirez’s commission was Maria, his childhood sweetheart. They married so Maria could become a military dependent, and Jorge always promised to come back to her. The birth of their son Tomas was the proudest day of Jorge’s life. Although he valued his career, he looked forward to the day when he could put combat behind him and build a home with his family. That day never came.
Maria and Jorge’s families still lived in a poor, often dangerous, neighborhood. So it was that she and young Tomas were caught in the crossfire of a gang shoot-out. Maria died en route to the hospital. Tomas lay in a coma for nearly two weeks before doctors gave up hope. Then Captain Ramirez tore up part of a recreational hall and put four men in the infirmary. He escape from military custody and disappeared.
Within three months, every member of the two gangs involved in the shooting was dead. At all of the death scenes were a single eye or the word “TALION” written in blood. Someone was exacting their own brand of justice.
Jorge Ramirez died with his wife and son, when he understood that he had been fighting the wrong war all along. Beside their graves Talion was born to exact the kind of justice people needed: fierce, unrelenting, and final. Armed with an arsenal of paramilitary weapons and equipment and a mobile headquarters, along with various safe-houses and hideouts, Talion is a scourge of the underworld, and God help anyone who gets in his way.
Talion claims he has no quarrel with other vigilantes, although he scoffs at heroes who think they can make a difference without being willing to execute the kind of scum they fight. Still, if any so-called “heroes” get in his way, Talion considers them another part of the enemy force.
TAKING FLAK
If the GM wishes, in addition to providing a modicum of armor, Talion’s fire-resistant ballistic cloth costume and flak jacket also convert the shooting damage done by bullets and fire sources less than level 7 into bashing damage instead. He doesn’t take less Stamina damage from those sources, they simply won’t kill him when he does.
