Tarpit
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Average 3 Great 6 Poor 2 Average 3 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
Criminal Wrestling
QUALITIES
Always Bounces Back Hard to Get Rid Of Hideous Tar Creature
POWERS
Life Support: Tarpit has Supreme (10) Life Support, no longer subject to the needs or weaknesses of flesh-and-blood creatures.
Stretching: Tarpit can stretch and deform his tarry body a Good (5) amount, giving him Damage Resistance and Fluid Form as well.
Transformation: Tarpit can transform into the shapes of other things with Incredible (8) ability, although he has the Tell of always looking like he’s made out of tar, black rubber, or a similar carbon-based substance. Hardening his body or producing weapons gives him Incredible (8) Damage Resistance or Strike powers.
BACKGROUND
The new mining process was supposed to revolutionize the industry, making it safer and more efficient, but all Daniel Tarrant knew was that it meant he was finished. Nobody knew Daniel was deep in debt to the
local mob, or that he had been smuggling materials out of the mine for them, and using side tunnels to hide things for them, but a part of the testing of the new process involved a complete and detailed audit of the mine operations. Somebody would find out. Then “Danny Boy” Tarrant would be ruined.
He appealed to Boss Bill Puckett, and that was his mistake. Puckett would fix the problem all right, by ensuring Tarrant didn’t crack and expose his operation. So his men arranged a little “accident,” leaving Tarrant’s unconscious body in the mine long after everyone was supposed to have cleared out. He regained consciousness just as the flood of chemicals and highly efficient molecular solvents poured in.
But Danny Tarrant didn’t die, at least not like Boss Puckett expected. His body dissolved into the slurry of complex carbon molecules leeched from the rocks. Then the pumping machinery suffered a massive failure and the process was shut down. Later, something crawled up out of the mine, a black, dripping shape, constantly shifting, with glowing yellow eyes and just one thought: to get out and find Boss Puckett. Danny Tarrant was gone, but the creature known as “Tarpit” had taken his place.
Heroes most likely encounter Tarpit when he is out for revenge against Boss Puckett and the mining company. Chances are the villain fights his way past Puckett’s goons to kidnap the crime boss and takes him to the closed off mine to finish him in the way Puckett intended for him. The heroes have to stop Tarpit, and hopefully reason with him. The mining equipment and remnants of the chemical solvent process that created him might give the heroes tools they can use against Tarpit, if it comes to that.
Once he is on the loose again, Tarpit is likely to fall into a life of crime in order to survive. He might suffer additional mutations from his condition, seeking out chemicals or other materials he needs to stabilize him. He could go to the company or scientists who developed the experimental mining techniques for help, or one of them might look to exploit him for their own benefits. He may also seek out possible cures for his condition, and somebody (including a master villain or mad scientist) may dangle the promise of a cure in front of Tarpit to get his cooperation.
