Tempus Khan
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Great 6 Fair 4 Average 3 Amazing 8 Fair 4 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Military Science
QUALITIES
The Chronal Conqueror Master of All Time
“None may know me as I was.”
POWERS
Aegis Khan: Force-generating nano circuitry known as the “Aegis Khan” is integrated into Tempus Khan’s uniform, giving him a Supreme (10) personal Force Field, which also provides full Life Support and allows Khan to defy gravity and “walk on air” like a Weak (1) Flight power. Even without his force field, Tempus Khan’s uniform provides him with Great (6) Damage Resistance and a self-contained air supply.
Future Devices: Tempus Khan has access to an arsenal of futuristic devices and equipment, providing him with Fantastic (9) Gadgets.
Time Technology: Tempus Khan is best known for his futuristic time controlling technology, granting him access to Fantastic (9) level Time Control, including all of its extras. His time-tech is controlled from cybernetic circuitry in his uniform, but involves larger equipment and power sources in his installations and strongholds to function.

BACKGROUND
The mysterious figure who calls himself Tempus Khan claims to be from a far future epoch, where science has unlocked secrets present-day “primitives” can scarcely imagine. Unfortunately, in his view, it has also extinguished the fire of the human spirit. His time is a place of perfect peace ... and utter boredom. No place for a man with the heart of a warrior and the spirit of a conqueror!
So the brilliant Tempus Khan sought out the one frontier remaining to him: time itself. He unlocked the secrets of time-travel and ventured back to eras better suited to his temperament, worlds that had not yet lost their war-like ways, worlds where he could conquer! He may have also traveled “sideways” in time, his ventures into the past spawning alternate timelines or parallel universes. As with most things concerning his personal past, Tempus Khan is cagey when it comes to confirming or denying these rumors.
Khan, playing the role of gentlemanly warlord, offers his conquests the opportunity for honorable surrender to join his vast empire, spanning different cultures and times. Still, he much prefers when they choose defiance over meek capitulation. His legions are recruited from amongst the finest soldiers in history, and his war-machines will not yet be seen for centuries to come. Tempus Khan prefers the role of general, but is still willing to step out onto the front lines, protected by his invisible— and invincible—force shield.
He always wears a futuristic suit of advanced armor which covers him completely, including his trademark golden face mask. Tempus Khan says his helm is now his true face. None may know him as he was, for it is dangerous for a time-traveler to reveal too much of his personal history.
Tempus Khan has a brilliant mind and is a skilled tactician and scientist. His armor generates an invisible force field, able to repel any attack, protect Khan from hostile environments, and even allow him to ignore the effects of gravity. He can retrieve any number of weapons or other devices from spatio-temporal “folds” where they are stored, and the cybernetic circuitry in his armor controls Tempus Khan’s chronal technology, allowing him to influence the flow of time itself in a local area and to travel through time, accompanied by his Chronal Horde of warriors, as well as centaur-like robots programmed for combat and maintaining order in his conquered territories. He has vast space-time ships, capable of “hovering” in an interstitial realm outside of ordinary space-time altogether.

THE CHRONAL HORDE
Tempus Khan’s legions of followers are known as “The Chronal Horde” and come from across time and space, although they are primarily recruits from his own far-future timeline. Although the Horde has many rank-and-file soldiers, its primary forces are made up of numerous robots controlled from Tempus Khan’s command post or stronghold.
HORDE SOLDIER
PROWESS COORD. STRENGTH INTELLECT AWARENESS WILLPOWER STAMINA
3332225
Specialties: Guns, Military
Equipment: Blaster Rifle (Blast 5 bashing damage)
Qualities: Soldier of the Horde, Subject of Tempus Khan
Chronal Horde soldiers are largely a faceless mass, indoctrinated to serve their Khan, and to attack or perish at his command.
SCIMITAR ROBOT
PROWESS COORD. STRENGTH INTELLECT AWARENESS WILLPOWER STAMINA
3261206
Specialties: Blaster Expert, Military Expert
Powers: Blast 6 (blaster cannons), Damage Resistance 4, Life Support
10, Mental Resistance 10
Qualities: Centauroid, Robot
Supplementing the Horde’s foot-soldiers are the Scimitar class robots, centauroid shaped, with humanoid upper torsos and quadruped lower bodies, equipped with side-mounted blaster cannons, their heads much like slitted metallic helms with only a glowing red range-finder visible through the dark “eye-slit”. Scimitars have limited AI capabilities, able to speak to answer inquiries, but otherwise they do not interact other than to carry out their orders.
TOMOR ROBOT
PROWESS COORD. STRENGTH INTELLECT AWARENESS WILLPOWER STAMINA
4371207
Specialties: Blaster Expert, Military Expert
Powers: Blast 6 (blaster cannons), Damage Resistance 6, Flight 7, Life
Support 10, Mental Resistance 10 Qualities: Robot, Transformer
The more powerful Tomor class robots transform from sleek aerospace fighters to hulking humanoid battlefield soldiers, walking or flying tanks. They are often equipped with various types of missiles in addition to their on-board blaster weapons. See Devices in the Great Power sourcebook for options.
MASTER TULKU
In many regards Tempus Khan’s greatest adversary is the mysterious Master Tulku, a green-robed and bearded figure, bent with age, who sometimes appears to those threatened by the chronal conqueror, offering them valuable advice or directing them towards some weakness of Tempus Khan’s plans. Master Tulku dwells at the mysterious “Tower at the End of Time” and
tends to speak in riddles and cryptic clues. Although sympathetic, he offers aid solely on his own terms.
Heroes may discover the truth: Master Tulku is in fact Tempus Khan’s far future self, seeking to undo some of the harm he has (or may have) caused in his past life, without causing a catastrophic temporal paradox in the process.
