The Intruder
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
None 0 None 0 None 0 Fair 4 Fair 4 Incredible 7
SPECIALTIES
Mental Resistance Possession
QUALITIES
Bodiless Otherworldly Entity Desire for Power and Experience “We have an intruder.”
POWERS
Possession: The Intruder has the ability to possess living host bodies with mental abilities (levels greater than None).
It touches a new potential host body and makes a Fantastic (9) Possession test against the victim’s Willpower, treating the outcome like a use of the Mind Control power, determining how long the Intruder can control the host. Its own mental abilities replace those of the host while it is in control, and the Intruder has access to the host’s memories, like a Fantastic Telepathy power, which it uses to enhance any deception.
If a host is knocked unconscious, the Intruder is trapped within the helpless body until another potential host touches it. It is ejected from a host body that dies or is otherwise destroyed. If ejected from a host and unable to possess another, the Intruder has Fantastic (9) Invisibility and Phasing, and drifts helplessly until it can possess a new host body.

BACKGROUND
The top secret Project: Bridge sought to penetrate the veil between worlds and explore what lay beyond in other dimensions of existence, and in the strange realm between them. One of their probes brought back something strange and alien, but intelligent and cunning. When it possessed the first technician to encounter it, it responded to the warning “We have an intruder!” taking that on as what it would be called in this new world of form and experience, since it has no name of its own pronounceable in any human tongue.
The Intruder is utterly fascinated with the nature of existence in Earth’s dimension and the experience of possessing a body, with all of the sensations that go with it. Unfortunately, it is also utterly amoral and considers physical beings little more than playthings for its own amusement, like suits that it tries on or toys to entertain it until they end up broken and discarded. Since its arrival in this dimension, it has become like an addict, moving from one host and one new experience to another, high on every new form and sensation.
Since discovering the existence of people with super-powers, the Intruder has focused on them as its preferred hosts, usually looking to “trade-up” its current body for one that is more powerful and capable of offering greater protection and security. Its fascination with interesting new sensations and experiences leads it to choose less “optimal” hosts from time to time: It would much prefer a physically powerful form, but not one that it cannot enjoy. It is also incapable of possessing non- biological life-forms like androids or robots. It could enter and control a cyborg brain, but such a concept is repugnant to the Intruder, given the limitations of such a form.
The Intruder doesn’t care to discuss where it came from, other than to say that it was “bored” and “alone” and glad to leave and come to such an interesting and enjoyable reality. There may not even be language to describe its home reality in terms humans can understand. Whether the Intruder’s previous reality was its original home, or some kind of prison where it was being kept, also remains unknown.