The Shadow Guild
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3 Fair 4 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
Criminal Deception
QUALITIES
Business Is Business The Dark World Hidden in the Shadows
POWERS
Equipment: Shadow Guild agents may have various weapons and other devices, as detailed in the Devices section of the Powers chapter of Icons or in the Devices chapter of Great Power.
BACKGROUND
Throughout history, there have always been groups, gangs, and factions who have operated and existed in the shadows, using them to conceal their activities, which usually focus on profiting off of human greed and misery. Those profits in turn translate into wealth and influence coming from the shadows, allowing the cycle to continue.
According to legend, these shadowy syndicates grew larger, stronger, and more influential and, as they did so, they spawned deeper and
darker shadows, and organizations within them which were to the criminal underworld as it was to the sunlit world of ordinary people. That a fraternity of crime grew out of the dark soil seeded with avarice and watered with blood, known variously as the Dark Brotherhood, the Hooded Ones, the Hidden Society, or—most commonly—the Shadow Guild.
These days, many quietly scoff at the notion that the Shadow Guild truly dates back to the Middle Ages or even long before then, with an arcane history full of secrets. Those are just stories, modern myths spread to sow confusion and fear about the organization and its true power. Indeed, criminals deny that the Shadow Guild even exists, but they know full well that it does, and that anyone with any sense respects their power and influence.
The Guild is organized in small cells, often known as guild houses or “shops,” with limited contact between them, and members often going hooded or masked to conceal their identities (indeed, the Shadow Guild claims to have invented the idea of the masked criminal). At the pinnacle of the organization is the mysterious figure known as the Guildmaster, whose identity and even existence is a closely guarded secret.
You can use the Shadow Guild in your series as an over-arching criminal organization, the power behind lesser syndicates like the Mafia, the Yakuza, the Triads, and such, a kind of “World Crime League” for the heroes to confront. Unlike terrorist organizations such as Legion, the Shadow Guild’s aims aren’t political; they’re solely interested in profit and maintaining their security and secrecy, criminal parasites feeding off of society, rather than looking to conquer. Essentially, the Shadow Guild already controls as much of the world as it wants to, everything else is about maintaining “business as usual.”
THE GUILD AS AN ORGANIZATION
If you have access to the Icons A to Z sourcebook, you may want to consider the Shadow Guild in terms of the guidelines in the “O” is for “Organizations” chapter. The Shadow Guild can field any of the various types of agents described in that chapter, and the qualities given for the typical agent here also work as qualities for the organization itself. In terms of attributes, the Shadow Guild has Amazing (8) Influence, Fantastic (9) Wealth, and Amazing (8) Security, along with Criminal and Deception Master specialties.
