The Warlock
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Fair 4 Average 3 Great 6 Incredible 7 Fantastic 9
SPECIALTIES
Occult Master
QUALITIES
Mystic Guardian of the Earth Supreme in Sorcery
Uneasy Lies the Crown
POWERS
Immortality: Magic sustains Warlock’s life. He does not age and has Good (5) Immortality, restoring him to life within hours.
Magic: Warlock wields Fantastic (9) magical power, including the Instant and Psychic extras and Mastery of Astral Projection, Blast, Flight, Telekinesis, Telepathy, and Teleportation. He’s capable of using his Occult specialty to perform rituals of Fantastic power as well and has access to a wealth of magical knowledge and lore.
BACKGROUND
Baron Earhart von Karnstein was born in 1540 to an aristocratic family in Europe. Possessed of a considerable talent for the occult, Earhart studied every forbidden text and tome available to him, eventually summoning demons and sealing dark pacts for even greater knowledge and power. He sought of masters of the mystic arts in order to steal their
secrets, conquering nearly all he encountered, but harvesting increasingly less knowledge, for there were few who could equal, much less exceed him. His treacherous dealings quickly earned him the title of “Warlock,” traitor to the society of sorcerers.
Finally, the Warlock met his match in the chosen Mystic Guardian of Earth’s plane of existence, entrusted with guarding against the forces lurking in realms beyond most human experience. He was able to stymie the Warlock and did so for centuries, the two of them engaged in a shadow game of cat and mouse behind the scenes, an ongoing duel of sorcery.
Until there came a day when the world’s Mystic Guardian grew fatigued, for even though great sorcerers defied the passage of time, constant responsibility took its toll. The Warlock’s old foe prepared to pass his power and mantle on to a disciple, and the sinister sorcerer chose that moment to strike. His targets were caught unawares and were no match for the onslaught. They were blasted from the earthly plane, leaving the Warlock as victor—and supreme magus.
Truly, Baron von Karnstein had not entirely considered what would happen if he eventually won his long-held vendetta, but now, the mantle of Mystic Guardian of the Earthly Plane was his, and soon all the forces throughout every Realm knew it. Since his victory, Warlock has become quite conservative—after all he now is the status quo! He takes his role as Mystic Guardian seriously, and ruthlessly defends the Earthly plane against any forces from the Mystic Realms that might threaten it, maintaining the various rituals, rites, and wards that help him do his work. He also tends to find ways to justify “confiscating” potential sources of magical power to “prevent them from falling into the wrong hands,” meaning anyone’s hands other than his own.
Warlock is a potential rival for any mystic or magical character: A “higher authority” who seeks to curb the activities of potential rivals, ensuring they can never threaten his power and position. Unfortunately for the heroes, Warlock’s position is at least somewhat legitimate, and the prospect of “dethroning” him as Mystic Guardian means potentially leaving the Earth open to attack or invasion.
Of course, there is always the possibility an alliance of magicians, perhaps aided by the lingering spirit of Warlock’s old foe and predecessor, may seek to do just that: put a new, more worthy, Mystic Guardian in place. They’ll have to cultivate their candidate in secret, lest Warlock catch wind of it and eliminate the threat before it can come to pass.
P