The Corsair Queen
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Great 6 Fair 4 Average 3 Average 3 Fair 4 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Blades Leadership Sailing Expert
QUALITIES
Fiery Tempered Pirate Queen Harbinger of the New Sun Mistress of the Flying Cutlass
POWERS
Energized Sword: Corsair Queen wields a cutlass filled with crackling energy. It inflicts Good (5) slashing damage in close combat and can fire Blasts of energy for shooting damage out to extended range.
The Flying Cutlass: Corsair Queen commands a flying pirate ship with Poor (2) Handling, Good (5) Speed and Structure, equipped with cannons able to fire Great (6) Blasts of energy for shooting damage to extended range. The Flying Cutlass has a crew of pirate henchmen at their captain’s command.
BACKGROUND
One of the most infamous pirates of the 17th Century had a short, but colorful career. Maggie O’Dare was known as “The Corsair Queen” in her time on the high seas. She went from the young widow of a murdered Scottish laird to captain of the Flying Cutlass, one of the most dangerous vessels to ply the seas of the New World. Substantial bounties were placed on her head, but no one ever collected them. Instead, after a number of daring raids, the Flying Cutlass and its crew vanished, lost during a storm at sea and never seen again.
In truth, the Cutlass, its mistress and crew encountered a treasure ship bound for Europe carrying goods taken from the Americas. One of these was accidentally awakened when Captain O’Dare was flung into it by a foe, three drops of her blood falling upon the ancient Aztec gold. The storm that followed the taking of the treasure ship was laced with greenish lightning, which struck the main mast and leapt to the Corsair Queen’s sword. The storm catapulted the pirate vessel and its crew centuries through time.
The Flying Cutlass reappeared in the area now known as the Bermuda Triangle, but the Corsair Queen’s vessel now possesses the power of flight with her at the wheel. Her blade and the ship’s guns crackle with lightning they can shoot farther and more accurately than any cannonball. The mysterious fog-bound isle her crew has named Corsair’s Cove provides them a safe haven and a place to conceal their loot.
Captain O’Dare knows of no way to return whence they came, but she intends to turn this twist of fate into good fortune for her and her crew. Cruise ships and yachts are now popular targets for the Flying Cutlass, since O’Dare understands jewels and coin are still valuable. She eventually figures out about other trade goods, making freighters potential targets as well.
The ancient golden Aztec sun disc whose magic catapulted the Cutlass through time and empowered the ship and its captain has a particular purpose: the gathering of mystic power through blood sacrifice, intended to bring on the next Aztec Sun, or age, which will involve the destruction of the world through fire! The artifact is gathering power from the Corsair Queen’s raids and battles, and eventually it will have accumulated enough to begin unleashing global catastrophes intended to bring about the New Sun, unless the heroes can find a way to stop it.