The Dark Rider
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Great 6 Great 6 Average 3 Good 5 Fair 4 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Drive Expert
QUALITIES
Born Outlaw Biker
Last of the Dark Riders Modern-Day Highwayman
POWERS
The Night Cycle: The Dark Rider drives a super-science motorcycle with capabilities far beyond those of ordinary bikes. The Night Cycle has Handling 8, Speed 5, Structure 4, and the Surface Speed extra of Super- Speed, allowing the Dark Rider to drive it up walls or across short stretches of water. He uses the bike’s Amazing (8) Handling to dodge while driving it.
Riding Gear: The Dark Rider wears motorcycle leathers and a helmet that conceal his identity and provide him with Weak (1) Damage Resistance.
Slip Through Shadow: The Dark Rider has the Incredible (7) ability of Teleportation from one area of shadow to another, slipping through the Dimension of Shadows in between, allowing him to go from one side of a city to another instantly. He usually uses dark tunnels and alleyways to pull off this trick.
BACKGROUND
Jackson Morrow was born into the life of an outlaw biker. His father was a founding member of the Dark Riders, a motorcycle club that celebrated freedom, nonconformity, and loyalty. The Dark Riders had their heyday decades ago, but gradually became more involved in criminal activity to fund their lifestyle. This resulted in an escalating number of encounters with the law and various superheroes.
Looking to “level the playing field,” the Riders engaged in a series of heists aimed at high-tech research and development facilities, looking to steal any technology that might give them an advantage against their superpowered foes.
Jackson’s first run as a full member of the club was on one such heist: a mission to steal an experimental ending that converted the inherent power of inertia into a drive system. The robbery was complicated, however, by another faction looking to steal the engine for their own use. A firefight ensued and, during the combat, a chain reaction built up in one of the installation’s reactors. As Jackson made a daring grab for the engine and tried to make good his escape, the reactor went super- critical and the entire facility was obliterated in a flash of unearthly energies.
When Jackson regained consciousness, he and the engine were lying along in the desert, hundreds of miles away from the site of the explosion. The strange energy released had infused every cell of his body and given him the power to shift through the Dimension of Shadows. By entering one area of darkness, he could cross the void, and emerge from another back into our world miles away. Jackson was sure of two things: One, that his new power would be useful, and two, that he wanted to make the passage through that dark realm as quickly as he could, because he could feel Things watching him there.
Using the stolen inertial engine, Jackson rebuilt his bike, creating one faster than any other, seemingly able to defy the laws of physics. He named himself in honor of the lost members of his club, still wearing their colors. As the last Dark Rider, he used the Night Cycle and his newfound powers to become like the highwaymen of old: Suddenly appearing out of the shadows to steal from his targets and ride off into the night.
