Tiara
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Fair 4 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Athletics
Mental Resistance
Power (Force Control) Expert
QUALITIES
Mistress of the Star Jewel Princess of Power
Taste for Danger
POWERS
The Star Jewel: The alien gemstone set in Tiara’s coronet gives her Amazing (8) Force Control powers, including the extras of Blast (bashing damage), Expanded Field, Extended Field, Force Constructs, and Force Flight.
The Jewel’s force effects are formed from glowing pink light projected from it, including the protective aura surrounding Tiara.
BACKGROUND
Nothing wrong with a little girl-power, unless, of course, you’re actually a girl. With power. Then you can expect a whole lot of people to turn on you. That was what Tara Grant experienced. Her brothers were expected
to pursue professional careers, while her interest in high fashion was passed off as “a hobby” and a way to spend her father’s money after getting expelled from yet another exclusive private school. Although she was determined, Tara’s efforts earned her no attention or appreciation, just inquiries about when she was going to settle down and whom she would marry, along with introductions to “suitable” men of the right age and background: superficial, self-centered, boring, and, most of all, weak. Tara wasn’t interested in any of them.
Her connections in the fashion business led to the right parties and the right meetings, and Tara discovered she had a taste for the dangerous. She didn’t care to indulge too deeply in clouding her mind or polluting her body, although she did like attention and luxury, but she most appreciated being involved in the dangerous game of behind-the- scenes deals and secrets. She had connections, influence, a taste for excitement, and a disregard for anyone who might get hurt along the way, making Tara Grant a capable criminal manipulator.
Smuggling, drugs, vice...she might have gotten caught, eventually. She certainly took greater and greater risks. If it weren’t for a particular smuggling operation involving certain rare gems, things might have gone quite differently, but at least one of those gems was quite special, an alien jewel recovered from a meteor impact and drawn to the willful and dangerous Tara Grant. At her touch, it channeled amazing power and she laughed at the opportunity fate had given her. With the gem set into a coronet, “spoiled princess” Tara Grant became Tiara, Mistress of the Star Jewel, and finally wielded the kind of power she felt she deserved.
Since then, Tiara has been a career criminal. She rarely works for free, but it isn’t about the money, and never has been. She is in it for the excitement and the opportunity to wield power, to do and take what she wants, while daring the rest of the world to stop her. So far, the authorities haven’t been too successful, and Tiara keeps looking for new challenges.
The true origins and nature of the Star Jewel are left for the Game Master to decide. It might be an alien artifact (perhaps even on of a set) or an alien entity in the form of a gem. Its power could be cosmic energy, magic, or some sufficiently advanced technology far beyond human understanding. Wherever the jewel came from, others may be looking for it, and it may even have an agenda of its own, that it is just waiting for the right opportunity to pursue.
