Zero
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Fair 4 Average 3 Great 6 Good 5 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Power (Zero Point Suit) Science Expert Technology
QUALITIES
I Know They Are After Me Master of Zero Point Energy “Zero: My name, your chances.”
POWERS
Zero Suit: Zero is sustained by an advanced suit of power armor, providing him with Total Life Support as well as Great (6) Blast, Flight, Force Field, Power Nullification, and Telekinesis powers from manipulating the suit’s inexhaustible source of energy. Without its Force Field active, the Zero Suit provides Average (3) Damage Resistance. If the suit’s Life Support is damaged or disabled, Zero begins suffering exhaustion (see Exhaustion under Reactions in the Taking Action chapter of ICONS). If he collapses from this exhaustion, he begins dying.
BACKGROUND
Dr. Ellroy Newman was a brilliant researcher in zero-point energy, a fundamental energy found on the atomic and sub-atomic level. Unfortunately, his theories were difficult to follow and impossible to replicate with the kind of rigor required for successful research. The isolated Dr. Newman grew increasingly convinced that he was on the
right track, but someone didn’t want him to succeed, someone with an interest in preventing the world from obtaining a source of cheap, clean, virtually inexhaustible energy. The more he thought about it, and the more the rejections piled up, the more it made sense. “They” didn’t want a change in the status quo, in the elimination of an energy and industrial infrastructure that was destroying the world, but making certain people rich.
Then came the accident. They say it was his fault, if it was anyone’s, that they couldn’t determine what caused the mysterious explosion of unknown energy in his lab, but Dr. Newman knew. They did it. They must have. They wanted to eliminate him and his work, but instead all they did was expose him to exotic radiation. They didn’t reckon on his determination, or him using his skills to build protective armor, powered by his own brilliant zero point module, to continue his work. His measures forced Them to take more aggressive measures, to convince others he was dangerous, and send the police to deal with him. Or maybe the cops were in on it the whole time.
Whatever the case, that is when Dr. Ellroy Newman effectively ceased to exist, and Zero was forced out on his own. Although his zero suit possessed a inexhaustible source of power to keep him alive and allow him to protect himself, he still needed things to continue his work: a laboratory, equipment, and undisturbed time. He found opportunities to gain many of these things through outright theft, or acquiring the money to buy them by stealing, fencing good, or occasional mercenary work. Even better when such things let him strike at Them and their gross materialism. In the process of confronting some heroes, he also discovered that his zero point energy emissions could interfere with some of their powers, temporarily nullifying them.
It is up to the Game Master exactly why Zero descended into paranoia and the nature of his discoveries. Perhaps his “zero point energy” is actually an innate power he attributes to a working scientific theory. Maybe he did discover a source of energy, but it is connected with otherworldly forces like Dirge’s Forbidden Ones (see Dirge) and exposure to it has caused madness to set in. Of course, it’s also possible Zero is right: That he is on to something and They don’t want anyone else to know about it...
Meanwhile, Zero goes about stealing resources and technology to further his research, some of which might be incredibly dangerous, causing additional accidents, or giving him ways to further enhance his own powers.
