Blood Diamond
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Average 3 Amazing 8 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
Guns Military
QUALITIES
Cold and Unfeeling as Stone Hardened Mercenary Marked by Blood
POWERS
Body of Diamond: Blood Diamond’s body is made of mystically animated red diamond, giving him Supreme (10) Damage Resistance and Total Life Support, near immunity to physical harm.
BACKGROUND
Johannes Bekker went from a young South African street tough with a few run-ins with the law to a security guard for a mining company with few qualms about their personnel’s history. He squandered what pay he earned, and racked up reprimands for getting into fights, although he managed to stay out of prison. Bekker was a small man looking for his big break, and he found it.
The diamond was the largest ever found in a South African mine, larger than Bekker’s fist, and the man who found it enlisted his help in smuggling it out of the mine and into the hands of the right buyer, because he knew Bekker could be bought. Unfortunately, he sorely underestimated the corrupt guard’s greed and callousness.
For his part, Bekker underestimated the power of fate. He crushed the miners skull with his own treasure and, as blood covered the surface of the stone, it changed—and Johannes Bekker changed with it. The diamond seemed to melt into his hands, flowing into his body, and transforming him from flesh and blood into a figure of “living diamond” tinted blood red as a sign of what he had done. Bekker went more than a bit mad and tore his way out of the mine compound that night—no guard, gun, or barrier was able to stop him.
Eventually, he regained at least some of his grip on sanity, and realized that he possessed tremendous advantages: amazing strength and near invulnerability, divorced from any human weakness. Unfortunately, he was also denied all of the human pleasures of having a body able to feel, to eat, drink, sleep...Bekker, or “Blood Diamond” as he became known, chose to hire out his abilities as a super-powered mercenary with an eye towards finding some way to reclaim what he has lost. Most of his considerable fees go into hidden and offshore accounts, funneled towards his personal quest to find a way to revert to his human form.
Ideally, Blood Diamond wants the power to assume human form at will, while still being able to transform back into his powerful diamond body, as he has become quite attached to power, invulnerability, and nigh- immortality as his only pleasures in life. Still, if giving up his powers permanently is the only way for him to experience all of the other pleasures life has to offer, he’ll take it in an instant. After all, what is the point of a fortune when you can’t enjoy it?
Heroes are most likely to encounter Blood Diamond working as hired muscle for any number of clients, although he’s known to commit the occasional crime on his own. They may also cross paths with the super- mercenary on his quest to gain control over his transformation or finally rid himself of it, and he’ll want to be certain he’s set up for life in a non- extradition country when that happens, since Blood Diamond has made quite a few enemies looking forward to the day when he’s no longer quite so invulnerable.