Count Malocchio
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Average 3 Average 3 Good 5 Average 3 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Leadership
Occult
Power Expert (Evil Eye)
QUALITIES
Infamous Old-World Legacy Master of the Evil Eye
Ruthless and Cunning Schemer
POWERS
The Evil Eye: The mystic pendant Count Malocchio wears projects a crimson light from its depths at his commend, granting him Incredible (7) Light Control powers, including the Blast, Flight, Force Field, and Telekinesis extras, in addition to a light beam Dazzle attack.
BACKGROUND
Count Bernino Malocchio is the thirteenth of an infamous line. His predecessors were part of the cutthroat politics of the medieval Italian city-states in the era of the Medicis and Machiavelli, and his grandfather was a fascist collaborator and Axis agent, who used the hypnotic powers of the talisman known as the Evil Eye to do their dirty work. The eleventh Count Malocchio met his end in a rockslide in the Alps, but his infamy did not perish with him.

Bernino grew up the spoiled and vicious heir to a fading criminal empire. His father, obsessed with the glories of the past but unable to adapt to the changing world of the present, was a mere shadow of the family legacy. Even as a child, Bernino was more clever and saw more clearly the ways to increase the family fortunes, but his father ignored him, and brutalized anyone who dared to challenge him.
Bernino knew he needed an edge if he was to become the new Count Malocchio and prevent his father from squandering his inheritance, so he sought out his grandfather’s final resting place, daring the treacherous peaks and valleys of the Alps. There he unearthed the legendary Evil Eye, and claimed its power for his own. Sacrificing a childhood mentor to seal a blood pact, he unlocked even greater power than previous possessors of the Eye imagined. It was not long thereafter that the twelfth Count Malocchio suffered a fatal “accident” and his son assumed the mantle of leadership.
Count Malocchio initially arranges a meeting of various international criminal cartels in order to declare himself “boss of bosses” and seize control of many of their operations. Naturally, such a meeting of infamous criminal influence does not go unnoticed by the authorities, who look for an opportunity to make arrests and pin criminal charges on the gang-leaders. Malocchio might even covertly cooperate with the heroes to set up his rivals, allowing him the opportunity to move-in and take over their territories.
Given an endless thirst for power by his first taste from the Evil Eye, Count Malocchio also searches for means to enhance the Eye’s power. He may uncover ancient sorcery in the catacombs of Rome or sunk amidst the canals of Venice, or use mad science to draw more power into the talisman (or from the talisman into his own body). Such experiments could give the Count improved power levels or additional things he can do with the crackling red energies of the Eye, ranging from hypnotic Mind Control like his predecessor to Ability Increase levels or the power to warp space and time itself.
Malocchio’s resources and appreciation of modern ways of doing things make him a good patron for other villains. He can hire or fund mercenary criminals working for his organization and may also bankroll projects to invest ordinary henchmen with powers. Even if the process is flawed (potentially deadly, for example) there’s no reason the Count’s pawns need to know that and they can still be useful to him and his organization before they expire.
