Dirge
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Average 3 Great 6 Fair 4 Amazing 8 Fantastic 9
SPECIALTIES
Occult Master
QUALITIES
Mad Opener of the Forbidden Gate The Many-Fingered Hand of Shigg Wearer of the Mask and the Cowl
POWERS
Aura of Madness: Dirge is surrounded by the madness-inducing power of the Forbidden Ones, emitting an effect like Incredible (7) Emotion Control to all that behold him without requiring an action on his part. Anyone failing to resist his aura acquires a “Madness” quality that Dirge can activate for free for as long as it lasts.
Magic: Dirge wields the primordial magic of Forbidden Ones, a Fantastic (9) power that swirls around him, barely contained by his mortal vessel. He incants spells in an alien tongue in a hollow, booming voice from behind the Mask of Shigg. Dirge has Mastery of the Force Field, Illusion, and Teleportation powers.
The Mask and Cowl of Shigg: These occult artifacts channel the power of the Forbidden Ones through the mortal body of August Pickman. Without them, Pickman is just a shell, utterly catatonic, his conscious mind torn asunder by alien madness. The artifacts themselves are completely indestructible.
BACKGROUND
August “Auggie” Pickman was a nobody, a small-time retail clerk in a small-time city, who dreamed of bigger things. Eventually, one of those Bigger Things came to dream of him as well...
The extra dimensional entity known as Shigg, one of the Forbidden Ones from the dawn of time, the primordial chaos outside of reality, touched Pickman’s mind. It whispered to him through his dreams, whispers of power and temptation. Auggie quit his job and disappeared for parts unknown as the whispered of Shigg drew him across the world, to the secret resting places of certain artifacts, the Mask and Cowl of Shigg. It promised they would make August Pickman a master of this world and all others, that they would transform his mundane and ordinary life.
That much was certainly true. Upon donning the Mask and the Cowl, Pickman’s mind was torn asunder and he was transformed into “the Many-Fingered Hand of Shigg,” foretold avatar of the Forbidden One, tasked with opening the Gates Beyond the World to bring about his master’s rebirth into reality. August Pickman was now literally nobody. Without the Mask and Cowl and the animating intelligence of the Forbidden One, he is nothing but a mindless shell, entirely catatonic.
Wearing the Mask and the Cowl, the body of August Pickman is the agent of chaos, harbinger of the Forbidden Ones, the song of ending— the Dirge.
Dirge exists to bring about the end of the world as we know it, by summoning his eldritch master, a cosmic being of chaos and madness, into this universe. It is a slow and difficult process—the Forbidden Ones were locked away from our reality long ago behind nigh-unbreakable spells and wards that closed the gates to our reality, but they are ageless and nothing if not patient.
Dirge’s work involves spreading madness and chaos, often in seemingly random ways, but always with a greater plan in mind. He may need to corrupt a particular soul or drive an individual to madness and despair as part of his master’s work. He encourages and tends to the apocalyptic Cults of Shigg and eliminates potential threats to the Forbidden Ones’ freedom, while waiting for the time when the stars and planets align and the right rituals can be performed to begin unlocking the gates to the Realms Beyond.