Earworm
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Weak 1 Average 3 None 0 Great 6 Fair 4 Incredible 7
SPECIALTIES
Linguistics Master Mind Control
QUALITIES
Brilliant Mimic
Hard to Get Rid Of Manipulative Little Worm
POWERS
Mind Control: Earworm can use its sonic emissions at close range (typically from inside someone’s ear canal) to exert Incredible (7) control over a target’s mind.
Sonic Emission: Earworm can Fair (4) level powerful sonic and ultra- sonic waves at close range, producing a Blast, deafening Dazzle, or Stunning effect, but its sonic emissions are limited to Poor (2) level at extended range.
Super-Senses: Earworm’s species has Infravision and Ultra-hearing.
Tiny: In addition to the effect on its physical abilities, Earworm’s tiny size provides a +3 bonus to its defensive reactions and Stealth tests.
BACKGROUND
The planet humans would call Vega IX is inhabited mostly by fungal and vermicular life, growing under the dim light of their distant sun. A star- faring race found that the worms living there had an interesting vocalization capability; their natural humming “song” had a mildly pacifying effect, and could be adapted to make prisoners (or slaves) more pliable. The visitors further bio-engineered the worms to enhance their abilities, and got a bit ahead of themselves.
Those little worms eventually fomented a rebellion, taking full control of their hosts. The conflict wiped out both sides and the civilization that took them from their home world and enhanced them paid a heavy price. Even scouts and outposts on distant worlds like Earth were recalled, or infiltrated by the worms and destroyed.
One such outpost was on Earth. So archeologists were startled when they discovered evidence of superior technology buried in the mountains of the Middle East. They were even more surprised when one of the artifacts—a canpoic style jar—was broken and one of the members of the dig went mad and attacked them. He escaped with one of their land-rovers and disappeared.
Surpassing all expectations regarding the intellect of such a small creature, Earworm is actually a brilliant vocal mimic, and has a fantastic facility for languages. It is also capable of replicating virtually any sound that it hears, and it sometimes uses this capability to fool victims and foes. It has progressed through various host bodies and learned all about Earth’s superhuman defenders and the best possible hosts for its control.
“Earworm,” as it has become known, is a tiny worm similar to a caterpillar, capable of emitting a hypersonic humming that can crack glass (or burst blood vessels) at close range. More often, Earworm crawls into a victim’s ear canal and uses its sonic emissions to take control of their brain, “driving” them like a vehicle and surviving off tiny amounts of nutrients from their bloodstream (or else pacifying a host and emerging to eat while the host body sleeps).
Earworm actually has a great intellect, the equal of any on Earth, and had learned all about the modern world and human history. It exploits the skills and abilities of its hosts as well, seeking to ensure its own freedom and survival and, eventually, the conquest of this planet (and perhaps others).
