Enemy Mime
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Good 5 Average 3 Fair 4 Fair 4 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Performance (Mime) Master Power (Mime Field) Expert
QUALITIES
Boxed-In
Everyone Hates Mimes Silent Force
POWERS
Mime Field: Enemy Mime controls an invisible force nicknamed “the Mime Field,” that essentially makes all of his mimed actions carry real-world effects, giving his power the Performance limit.
For the most part, the Mime Field acts as Amazing (8) Force Control, able to generate and project fields and shapes of unseen force. When he mimes an invisible wall or box, for example, a barrier of Amazing material springs into being there. The same is the case for miming ropes, ladders, slides, and other structures, as well as mimed throwing of invisible projectiles or even unseen guns or bombs.
Additionally, the Mime Field can even warp space: When Enemy Mime performs “walking down stairs” or stepping or climbing through an opening that otherwise takes him out of view for a moment, he can teleport with Amazing ability, reappearing in some distant location.
BACKGROUND
His name and background are unknown, perhaps even to him. If he does recall anything about them, he certainly isn’t saying anything. The mysterious criminal nicknamed “Enemy Mime” by someone in law enforcement with a sense of humor was apparently a legitimate street performer at one point, caught in the midst of a super-battle in a downtown area, where an experimental energy device exploded. He disappeared in that explosion, only to return some time later, using his strange powers to commit robberies and draw the attention of a criminal gang.
Enemy Mime never speaks, although whether that is due to an inability or a strange devotion to not breaking character remains unknown. When he communicates, he does so solely through pantomime, which can be a frustrating process, to say the least. Still, a few criminal elements have picked up on translating Enemy Mime’s occasional conversations, enough for opportunistic thugs to work with him from time to time. Even psychics find the pale-faced criminal’s thoughts as silent as his voice. (Game Masters, feel free to activate Enemy Mime’s Silent Force quality for a Telepathy disability for attempts to read his mind, awarding the player a Determination Point.)
His perpetual silence leaves Enemy Mime’s sanity in question. Is he even aware of what he’s doing, capable of telling right from wrong, or is it all just an extended performance to him? He might be stealing simply for the extra cash, or there could be some kind of plan to it, either to extend or improve his powers, or to find some means of curing whatever happened to him. Certainly, if he’s captured, authorities will be left with the question of deciding if Enemy Mime is competent to stand trial (and how to translate his “testimony,” if any) or if he should be confined for psychological evaluation.
In spite of all of this, Enemy Mime does sometimes cooperate with other super-criminals in addition to hired henchmen. He might well forge a temporary partnership with Harlequin and Columbina, for example, or with Lasso and Buck Bronco, or the Thermo-Couple (Fire & Ice) or other performance, circus, or carnival-themed villains. Worse yet, all of them might come together to form some sort of “Carnival of Crime”!