Karnifex
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Fair 4 Amazing 8 Great 6 Fair 4 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Mental Resistance Military
QUALITIES
Champion of the Golkoth Empire “I must not fail!”
Seeker of the Star Entity
POWERS
Battlesuit: Karnifex wears an alien battlesuit, granting him Total Life Support and Great (6) Damage Resistance.
The suit’s gauntlets are equipped with energy projectors that fire Great (6) Blast attacks and that are capable of draining the vital energy of other life forms by touch, a Fair (4) Energy Drain attack with the Life Drain extra.
Space Warps: Karnifex’s greatest resource is Golkoth warp technology, granting him Supreme (10) Teleportation with the Gate extra. It transported him across the light-years to Earth and allows him to kidnap his test subjects. Computers in his battlesuit handle the computations necessary for the warps. Transportation at planetary distances is effectively instantaneous, but interstellar warps require careful calculation and the right window of time before opening.
BACKGROUND
Across the galaxy, the Golkoth Empire has come under attack by an implacable alien foe. They attack without warning and without mercy and the Golkoth cannot long withstand their onslaught. So the Imperator met with his Council and a radical course of action was sanctioned: The Empire needs a Star Entity to fight for them, for only such a being can stand against the invaders and defeat them.
The warrior Karnifex was summoned and given his instructions. On the planet Earth, the inhabitants have manifested a bizarre range of powers and abilities. One amongst them may be a potential Star Entity or, if not, perhaps a group of them can be brought to Golkoth, their combined powers used to create a new Star Entity. The fate of the Empire is at stake and Karnifex must not fail!
Once Karnifex arrives on Earth, he seeks out its native super-beings to begin the process of testing them, seeking a nascent Star Entity. If any humans seek to stop him, Karnifex brooks no interference with his mission. He uses his powers and alien technology to capture various representatives of Earth’s super-powered population, putting them to the test to determine their usefulness to his mission. Either one or more of them have the potential he seeks, or they will be winnowed out of the field. Karnifex knows that a potential Star Entity may need to be pushed to the breaking point to awaken that potential. If so, then it will be done.
An honorable warrior of many battles, Karnifex finds what he must do to carry out his mission distasteful. He has no great desire to recruit unwilling aliens to serve the Empire’s cause. He would prefer honorable combat against the foes of the Empire, to be on the front-lines defending it, but his Imperator has commanded, and he must obey. At least part of Karnifex hopes to discover a potential means by which he may become the Star Entity his people need to defeat their enemies.
It is possible Karnifex’s mission may fail, that the Star Entity is not forthcoming, at least not in time to save the Golkoth from destruction. If the alien warrior finds himself stranded on Earth, with no Empire left for him to return to, what will he do then? He may choose to try and rebuild Golkoth on Earth, conquering it and establishing a Second Empire, or he might take all of the knowledge and resources he acquired and use them to launch a final retributive strike against the destroyers of his people, regardless of the other lives that might be lost in the process.
