THIS IS FOR LASSO ONLY
Lasso
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Fair 4 Average 3 Average 3 Fair 4 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Athletics Expert Lasso Master Martial Arts Stealth
QUALITIES
“Looks like you’re all tied up” Modern-Day Rustler YEEEE-HAW!
POWERS
Lariat of Larceny: Lasso wields the mysterious Lariat of Larceny, a length of rope with a slipknot lasso she uses with Incredible (7) skill.
The lariat grants Lasso an Incredible Binding attack, although breaking the binding merely means getting loose, as the lariat itself is virtually unbreakable. She can also use the lariat for Incredible Swinging, including grabbing things with the rope’s loop.
Moreover, the lariat responds to Lasso’s mental commands, animating and moving as she wishes, as if she possessed Telekinesis to control it, so long as it is in visual distance or (in the GM’s opinion) she can clearly visualize its location. Lasso may be able to perform other stunts involving the lariat—treat them as trouble for the heroes when she does.
& Buck Bronco
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Fair 4 Average 3 Incredible 7 Average 3 Average 3 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Athletics
Martial Arts Mental Resistance Wrestling
QUALITIES
Mule-Headed
Not My First Rodeo Plenty of Horsepower
POWERS
Hoofing: Buck’s horse-like legs and lower body give him Poor (2) land speed, carrying as much as he can lift.
Tough Hide: Buck Bronco’s tough hide and muscle give him Average (3) Damage Resistance.
BACKGROUND
Tess Weyland was born to be a cowgirl. She was sitting a horse almost before she could walk, and attending rodeos not long after that. Although she wasn’t going to be anybody’s “little lady” she made her daddy proud with the way she could ride, shoot, and—most of all— handle a lasso. Tess won plenty of competitions, from riding to rope- tricks and hog-tying, and she looked forward to the day when she would take over the family ranching business.
P
Unfortunately for the Weylands and a whole lot of other families, the MacDonald Agricultural Development Corporation moved into the area and started buying up farms and ranches, and running others out of business so they could buy up the properties for pennies on the dollar. Ben Weyland held out and refused MAD Co.’s offers, but then his wife got sick and medical bills started piling up just as business was failing. Although Tess protested, Ben had to sell or else face financial ruin. In the end, it didn’t much matter: Linda Weyland succumbed to her illness, and her husband succumbed to despair and shame not long thereafter.
Tess Weyland’s sole inheritance was a trunk of old belongings from the family attic, which about fit into a suitcase, but among the faded photos and other mementos was a length of rope, as supple as could be, but stronger than all get out, supposedly cut from the same coil as the so- called “Noose of Justice” used by a “hanging judge” in the Old West. When Tess played around with the lariat, she discovered is was far more than it appeared, and hit upon an idea.
Wearing a mask and with the aid of the lariat, Tess Weyland broke into the local MAD Co. facility. She wasn’t certain what she meant to do; maybe just bust up the place, or look for some incriminating evidence, or even just rob from the company that was robbing the entire county and state blind. What she found was way more than she bargained for. MAD Co. was concealing a secret laboratory for genetic experiments, and Tess found people being held prisoner there...except that while they might have still been “people” they weren’t exactly human, not any more.
She busted this one fella out of there, tall and build like a bronco, which made sense because he also had a horses head, hooves, and tail! He didn’t much recall who he was before MAD Co. did whatever it was they did to him, but he did know he didn’t want to be anybody’s lab rat any more. Tess nicknamed him “Buck Bronco” and told him her name was “Lasso,” at least where there might be anybody listening. Together they took off into the night and MAD Co.’s mercenaries came after them.
Since then, Lasso and Buck have been on the run, pulling heists and doing what they need to survive, and particularly hitting back at MAD Co. until they can draw the attention of the authorities to what is really going on, or find evidence they can use against “Old Man” MacDonald and his mad-science experiments. Truth of the matter is, Lasso and Buck Bronco make a great team, and both of them find the life of outlaws suits them. Even if they do manage to take down MAD Co. one of these days, who knows if they’ll want to give up the criminal life by then?
MACDONALD AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (MAD CO.)
Although most of the world thinks of MacDonald Agricultural Development Corporation through it’s “Ol’ MacDonald,” “MacDonald Farms,” and “Manor Farms” brands of food and supermarket goods (which it thinks of it at all), the corporation is a multi-billion dollar agribusiness that controls farms and food production facilities around the world. Although it presents the image of “friendly family farms,” the company has been heavily invested and involved with cutting-edge breeding and genetic engineering programs for decades.
In particular, MAD Co. has been involved in more than just creating disease- and blight-resistant crops and high-yield livestock that can be raised with fewer antibiotics; they have engaged in illegal gene-splicing and recombinant DNA experiments involving human subjects, part of their top-secret “Project: Barnyard”. The successes of the project include the creation of some human-animal chimeras, and the ability to splice certain animal traits into human DNA (even retroactively with tailored RNA sequences).
Naturally, MAD Co. CEO James Ernest MacDonald and his cronies wish to keep the company’s illegal activities secret, and have been known to use the resources of Project: Barnyard to help do so. They label groups opposed to MAD Co.’s ruthless expansion in agribusiness as “eco- terrorists” opposed to “fair trade and business” and hunt down anyone who knows about the company’s dirty secrets.
BARNYARD CHIMERA
PROWESS COORD. STRENGTH INTELLECT AWARENESS WILLPOWER STAMINA
4342437
Specialties: Athletics
Powers: The same as the basic animal type from the Creatures section
of the Game Mastering chapter of Icons.
Qualities: Both Animal and Human, Creation of MAD Co.
The above is a typical genetic creation of MAD Co.’s Project: Barnyard. Increase Coordination or Strength below the original animal’s to that level (so a chimerical eagle or lion would have Fair Coordination, and a chimerical elephant or rhino would have Incredible Strength, for example). Adjust Stamina for any increase in Strength.
P