Mantra
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Poor 2 Average 3 Poor 2 Fair 4 Fair 4 Good 5
SPECIALTIES
Business Meditation
Mental Resistance Performance
QUALITIES
Cult of Enlightenment Entrancing Voice Seeker of Sanat Kumara
POWERS
Hypnosis: Mantra’s voice carries a powerful hypnotic quality, allowing her to Amazing (8) Mind Control over subjects able to hear her.
Mantra’s Mind Control has the Hypnosis limit, able to issue a single command or suggestion, but can affect all subjects able to hear her voice at once. Mantra can and does use her Hypnosis to alter or erase subjects’ memories and to implant powerful post-hypnotic suggestions to be carried out at a later time.
BACKGROUND
It is a challenge for any woman to succeed outside of the home and marriage in modern India, and Manjula Malakar worked her way from

administrative assistant through earning a business degree to influential executive at a relatively young age, but her constant work and ambition to succeed left her feeling empty even when she achieved her goals. She became a success, achieving far more independence than many, but what did “success” really mean in her life?
Feeling burned out by stress, plagued by constant headaches and sleepless nights, Manjula turned to her previously ignored spiritual heritage and adopted the practices of prayer and meditation, seeking inner peace and enlightenment, and pursuing her goals with the same dedication she brought to everything else. She eventually took a leave of absence from her work to go on a spiritual retreat, where her whole life changed.
Manjula experienced a powerful vision late one night while deep in prayer and meditation: a terrifying experience of strange spirits and beings beyond the veil of mundane human experience, accompanied by the image of twin flames like burning eyes looking into her soul and the voice, the powerful inner voice, that told her “You will do the work of Sanat Kumara, the Prince of the Earth,” before she was cast down, falling...falling as if forever, before she awoke.
The night unlocked something within Manjula. Her voice carries spiritual authority and a soothing power to induce trance in others, making them suggestible and subject to her instructions and influence. She became convinced that it was her responsibility to become a guru, a guide along the path to enlightenment, and to help humanity set aside its petty differences and attachment to meaningless material success, and prepare for the coming challenges of the age.
As Mantra, the serene leader of the Universal Path of Enlightenment, Ms. Malakar has combined her business and management acumen with her unique talents to create a growing world-wide movement with thousands of adherents listening to her meditative audio downloads and tuning in to her regular video messages and broadcasts to speak about the importance of achieving inner enlightenment. She is willing to use the tools at hand to achieve her goals and, for a non-materialist, has amassed quite a range of resources in a relatively short time. Although Mantra speaks of peace and harmony among all people, she also cannot allow anyone to interfere with her divine-ordained work—not matter what.
It’s up to the Game Master as to the exact nature of Mantra’s spiritual vision. Is she a divinely appointed guru, or has she gravely misunderstood the message she received?

