The Serpent Sphinx
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Fair 4 Fair 4 Good 5 Fair 4 Incredible 7
SPECIALTIES
Mental Resistance Occult Master
QUALITIES
Risen from the Tomb
Scion of the Emerald Scarab Sutekmos the Undying Pharaoh
POWERS
Mesmerism: Like his namesake serpent, he has Incredible (7) powers of mesmerism, Mind Control with the Eye Contact limit, affecting anyone who meets his glowing, golden gaze.
Regeneration: The Serpent Sphinx is truly undying, possessing Fantastic (9) powers of regeneration that allow him to recover from almost any harm. Even if his current mortal body were destroyed, his spirit endures so long as the Emerald Scarab exists, and can possess another mortal form. The Scarab itself is an enchanted talisman which is immune to physical harm without the proper magical rituals.
Sorcery: The Serpent Sphinx has Incredible (7) Magic at his command, including Mastery of Blast, Flight, and Servant spells. He also uses his mastery of Occult to perform magical rituals of Amazing (8) power.

BACKGROUND
The reign of the ancient Pharaoh Sutekmos I has been erased from history. A cruel and evil ruler, Sutekmos worshipped the god Set and mastered corrupt sorcery and forbidden powers in his quest to conquer and rule forever. Overthrown by an uprising against his evil, he was mummified alive and bound into a secret tomb by the wizard-priests of Thoth, where he slept for thousands of years, trapped in the realm between life and death, evading judgement in the afterlife.
In recent years, a desert sandstorm uncovered the hidden entrance to Sutekmos’ tomb, an ancient carving of a serpent-headed sphinx. Local Egyptologist Ahmed Akbar learned about the mysterious figurehead in the desert and organized a small expedition to find it, ignoring the superstitious warnings of the locals, and even the flight of his own workers from the site.
Dr. Akbar discovered the entrance to the hidden tomb, and made his way in alone, certain he had the greatest discovery in Egyptian archeology in decades. Unfortunately, he was quite right, but not in the way he expected. Evading and disarming the tomb’s ancient traps, he found the sarcophagus of the legendary Pharaoh of the Serpent Sphinx and, therein, the gleaming jewel of the Emerald Scarab, which called to him to reach out and touch it.
Dr. Akbar’s mind and soul were torn and cast from his body as the malign spirit of Sutekmos seized control. The eyes he raised to survey the interior of the tomb were no longer black, but a coldly glittering gold, like those of a snake, and a slow smile spread across his face. Not even death could stop the ambitions of the Serpent Sphinx, and he left the dusty tomb behind, taking the Emerald Scarab and his treasures with him.
The Serpent Sphinx now stalks the world, gathering ancient artifacts and sources of mystic lore, continuing his quest towards supreme power and conquest over the world. The world he once knew is no more, but this new world holds so many new pleasures, amusements, and challenges, and an immortal sorcerer has time to savor them along the road towards victory. Heroes may encounter the Serpent Sphinx (or his summoned or mesmerized minions) engaged in looting museums or ancient tombs, battling magicians and mystics, or simply enjoying the vices of modern life, without regard for harm to any innocents who get in the way.
