Smith
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Fair 4 Average 3 Incredible 7 Fair 4 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Technology Expert
QUALITIES
Black Market Tech Supplier Can Build Almost Anything Opportunist
POWERS
Gadgets: Smith can come up with all kinds of devices, given time and equipment to build them. She usually has a few standards close at hand:
• Force Shield Belt: A protective measure providing a Good (5) Force Field while it’s turned on.
• Kinetic Hammer: A tool and weapon that serves as a Great (6) Strike device.
BACKGROUND
Bridget O’Toole always preferred her father’s garage, where he worked as a mechanic, to the dollhouses, tea sets, and pink and frilly things her parents tried to foist upon her. Bridget likes to get grease under her nails and dirt on her nice clean clothes. More than that, she was brilliant,
far ahead of any of her peers in school and utterly bored in most of her classes.
Her traditionalist parents didn’t know what to do with Bridget, so they finally set her off to boarding school. So began Bridget’s history of rebellion and getting herself in trouble, mainly pulling elaborate technical pranks. In spite of her school records, Bridget aced tests and eventually earned herself a scholarship and a ticket out of her home town. That’s when she discovered college was no different for an attractive, but brilliant, young woman who didn’t play by the rules.
When Bridget spurned the advances of her academic advisor (a married man older than her father), she was faced with the potential loss of her scholarship due to “review of her prior issues”. Desperate for cash, she discovered the lucrative market for underworld tech experts. What’s more, she made valuable contacts, in person and online. One of those online contacts told Bridget she had an incomparable mind, and gifted her with a massive download of technical information, the kind of things she had only dreamed of before.
So it was that Bridget O’Toole disappeared and the career of the mysterious underworld engineer known as “Smith” began. For the right price, Smith can supply a client with the solution to almost any technical problem, outfit a secret lair, provide a customized getaway vehicle, or more. Although the authorities have had Smith on their Most Wanted list for some time, they have no idea the black market arms-dealer is even a woman, much less Bridget O’Toole. For her part, Smith stays out of the action, supplying equipment behind the scenes, but sometimes she needs a hard-to-find component or wants to test a prototype in the field. Even in her workshop, she’s rarely without her force shield belt and a high-tech hammer capable of emitting enough kinetic force to shatter concrete.
It’s trouble with a capital “T” for “technology” when Smith opens up shop in the heroes’ area. Criminals with enough bank can arm themselves with photonic beam emitters, gravitic mines, tanks with reactive armor, and much, more. If the heroes don’t start noticing all the new toys are the work of the same maker, the authorities do, and fill them in on the operation of the mysterious “Smith”. Can they track the tech back to its source and shut Smith down?
Smith is a good opportunity to outfit an otherwise none-too-bright bad guy with some high tech. She is also a good character to involve in plots dealing with technology and tech-based villains—or heroes for that matter.