The Patriot
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Good 5 Fair 4 Fair 4 Average 3 Fair 4 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Guns Expert Martial Arts Military Master Stealth Expert
QUALITIES
Does Whatever It Takes
My Country, Right or Wrong Veteran Soldier
POWERS
Equipment: Patriot uses a variety of equipment in his never-ending war, including an armored uniform providing Poor (2) Damage Resistance, guns that inflict Good (5) shooting damage, and a combat knife that inflicts Average (3) slashing damage. The heads-up display of his mask provides him with Enhanced and Infrared Visions (Poor Super-Senses).
BACKGROUND
Garrett Ian Joseph McCord has been a patriot ever since he was old enough to wave an American flag. Born on the Fourth of July, Joe was raised on military bases his entire life. As a result, he never had any lasting friendships and came to see the military as his home and his family. Joe never wanted to be anything other than a soldier and enlisted as soon as he was able. His fierce patriotism and his preference for his third name earned him the nickname “G.I. Joe” McCord.

During his time in the military, Joe underwent a variety of special training, possibly even volunteering for certain experiments aimed at improving the alertness and situational awareness of soldiers in the field. Unfortunately, all of those files are classified. McCord eventually left the service and set up a mercenary operation, traveling the world to perform covert, deniable operations, some say still secretly working for the American government.
He was extremely good at his job—the best at what he did—and relished the freedom from military protocol and the chain of command, to say nothing of the rules of engagement. Unfortunately for McCord, journalists published evidence of him using “enhanced interrogation techniques” on civilians. To insulate themselves, McCord’s allies and employers turned on him, claiming he’d gone rogue and hanging him out to dry.
Betrayed, his life and career destroyed, McCord snapped. He became paranoid, obsessed with conspiracy theories about leftists and “the liberal media” working to destroy him, when all he wanted was to protect America. With cash flow from his mercenary operations cut off, McCord adopted a new identity, that of the masked Patriot, and devoted himself to a new cause. While “G.I. Joe” McCord has devoted his life to protecting American interests throughout the world, the Patriot would clean things up at home, rooting out the rot and corruption within American society. A new Revolution is coming, and he will be at the forefront!
The Patriot goes after anyone he perceives as “anti-American,” which includes liberal politicians, the media, war critics, peace protesters, civil rights activists, and even “leftist” superheroes—pretty much anyone running counter to a 1950s Cold War era vision of American greatness. He’s still happy to take mercenary work that helps to fund and further his “war to make America great again” but the money is just a means to an end. More disturbing than the Patriot’s “one-man war” is the looming possibility of certain shadowy factions seeing in him an opportunity to further their own plans, making the Patriot into a weapon they only need to point in the right direction to get the job done.
