The Fox
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Great 6 Great 6 Average 3 Fair 4 Fair 4 Fair 4
SPECIALTIES
Athletics Expert Martial Arts Expert Performance
QUALITIES
Craves Attention Crazy Like a Fox Flirtatious Supermodel
POWERS
Baton: The Fox wields a collapsable metal baton as a weapon, capable of extending to quarterstaff length, or splitting into two shorter fighting batons. It is made of Incredible (7) Material and inflicts Good (5) bashing damaging in close combat. It has an internal cable reel and magnetic grapplers, allowing it to be wielded like a split or three-part staff, as well as providing the Fox with Good (5) Swinging.
BACKGROUND
Britney Dane has always craved attention. From beauty pageants to cheerleading and gymnastic competitions to student government to prom queen, Britney has always been in the spotlight, at the center of her own self-absorbed world. Perhaps it was due to her spoiled and wealthy upbringing, her largely absentee and indulgent parents, or the natural beauty that always made her a “stone fox” but, whatever the case, it was all about Britney, and always has been.

In college, Britney became a successful fashion model, her face and form gracing the covers of magazines, posters, and billboards all over the world. She was the spokesmodel for lines of beauty products and athletic wear and even garnered a few film and television offers. She was at the top of her game and on top of the world.
Then came the red carpet walk to the premier of her first motion picture. Everything was flawless, from her dress to her makeup, and Britney was prepared to bask in the glow of her public’s admiration, but her big debut was ruined when a fight broke out between some costumed lunatics a few blocks away. All of the press and even most of the fans on-hand rushed to cover the battle, or else sought cover, leaving Britney standing alone and ignored on the red carpet. She swore that would never happen again.
Britney became obsessed with costumed heroes and villains. She intensified her athletic training. Already a champion gymnast, she hired the finest trainers and coaches and pushed herself to her limits. She also secretly began bankrolling and bailing out some criminals in exchange for learning the tricks of their trade. Britney could have used all of these skill and drive to become a costumed hero, but heroes were reactive and waited around to deal with problems. Many of them shunned the spotlight that Britney craved. If she wanted attention, she knew how to get it—and enjoy herself along the way—instead she became a super- criminal, the Fox!
Naturally, the Fox goes for high-profile crimes, the higher the profile, the better. She prefers heists where no one gets hurt too badly, and she can enjoy her ill-gotten gains, although it’s far more about the excitement and attention than it is about the money. The Fox loves sparring, baiting, and flirting with the heroes who try to stop her, partly for the challenge and because the public eats it up.
For now, Britney maintains her masked identity as the Fox separate from her life as supermodel Britney Dane—preferring to have the best of both worlds. She wears a mask and changes her hair color and voice as the Fox. Still, her obsessive need for attention drives her to increasingly leave clues or drop leading comments. It’s all a game to her, at least until the revelation of her criminal activities brings the game to a crashing halt. Still, if the Fox is aware of the risk she is taking, she doesn’t seem to care, so long as all eyes are on her.
