The Ultra-Mind
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
None 0 None 0 None 0 Amazing 8 Good 5 Fantastic 9
SPECIALTIES
Science
QUALITIES
Beyond Human Weakness Brain in a Tank
Highly Evolved
POWERS
Mental Blast: The Ultra-Mind can assault other minds with mental blasts of Great (6) power.
Telekinesis: Ultra-Mind has Great (6) powers of Telekinesis, including the Blast and Force Field extras.
Telepathy: The Ultra-Mind’s greatest power is his Amazing (8) Telepathy, allowing him to read and probe other minds. He uses various Telepathy stunts from time to time, but doesn’t have any of them as extras.
BACKGROUND
Evolutionary biologist Victor Slan developed methods to rapidly “force” evolution, bypassing millions of years of natural selection and progress. When his project was cancelled, Dr. Slan broke into his lab and used his genetic accelerator on himself, transforming into a hyper-evolved “Ultra- Mind” with amazing psionic powers and intellect. The forced evolution severely atrophied his body, however, eventually leading to massive
organ failure. Ultra-Mind designed a life-support tank to preserve his advanced brain, and the remote surgical system able to transplant it from his dying body. Since then, he has proclaimed himself free of “all human weakness” and without any need for a body of flesh and blood. Ultra-Mind seeks to further his “inevitable evolution” and increase his already considerable power, either through artificial enhancements to his brain-tank or by further evolving into what he believes will eventually be a godlike being of pure thought, unshackled from physical existence and able to reshape reality at will.
The Ultra-Mind’s ongoing research and experimentation requires a great deal of resources, which he usually steals from high tech laboratories and companies, or he simply steals the money or wealth needed to buy them on the black market. Although the Ultra-Mind is capable of committing such robberies, he often employs various hirelings to do his dirty work, unwilling to “lower” himself to such menial tasks.
The Ultra-Mind’s work also requires a fair number of experimental subjects, which are usually either kidnapped or chosen from among the desperate willing to subject themselves to experiments in hopes of gaining super-powers, and some of the Ultra-Mind’s efforts have resulted in stable super-beings. He’s known to make them into his minions, using brain-washing, mind-control, or simply blackmail, particularly if their powers are temporary or their condition requires further treatments or attention.
Coldly dispassionate and supremely arrogant, the Ultra-Mind has no peers in his view, but will form alliances as needed, and has been known to weld together groups of super-criminals under his leadership to achieve his goals, always willing to sacrifice such pawns as needed in order to win the game.
The Ultra-Mind prefers to sit like a spider in the center of a web of influence, working through telepathy and various agents, although he is quite capable of lashing out with both psychic and telekinetic attacks and protecting himself with a powerful kinetic field. Normally limited to the slow, hovering movement of his brain-tank, the Ultra-Mind can move himself and the tank telekinetically in times of need (a Flight stunt), and he always has failsafes and escape plans in place to ensure his own survival, should his plans go awry.
