The Troll
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Incredible 7 Average 3 Fantastic 9 Average 3 Average 3 Average 3
SPECIALTIES
Athletics Expert Military
QUALITIES
Immovable Object Monstrous Mercenary Unstoppable Force
POWERS
Claws: His transformed hands tipped with claws and his forearms covered with bony spikes, Troll can also inflict Good (5) slashing damage rather than the normal bashing damage for his Strength.
Damage Resistance: Troll’s transformation has given him Fantastic (9) resistance to all forms of damage or injury. His hide is some of the toughest armor around, able to shrug off even anti-tank weaponry with ease.
Leaping: Troll’s super-strong legs and tail giving him Incredible (7) Leaping ability, able to move out to visual distance in a single bound and leap the height of even most tall buildings.
Tail: Troll’s powerful tail gives him the ability to make an extra attack each page with his full Incredible (7) Prowess.

BACKGROUND
Twelve feet tall, and weighing more than a ton, the Troll is a force of nature — unstoppable force and immovable object all in one.
The Troll was Carter Cassidy, a mercenary with a long and bloody resume. Cassidy worked in some of the worst hell-holes in the world — Iraq, Burma, Afghanistan, and more tinpot dictatorships in subsaharan African than even he can remember. He was an expert soldier, knew his job well, and was paid handsomely for his expertise.
One fateful day, the mastermind Rex Mundi became Cassidy’s new boss. The supervillain wanted the benefit of Cassidy’s expertise — he was looking to create a super soldier formula, with which he could produce an army of superpowered individuals to do his bidding. He intended to extract a copy of Cassidy’s brain engrams — the biochemical means by which memory and skill are stored. Using these engrams and adding them to his serum would allow his super soldiers to instantly have the expertise of a seasoned mercenary. That was the plan, but something went wrong.
The process somehow unlocked the deepest recesses of Cassidy’s id — the darkest of his drives, his inner nature, which reacted with the biochemical processes and transformed Carter Cassidy into the monster he truly believed himself to be, in the core of his being: strong, tough, unstoppable.
The transformation sent Cassidy into a rage and, while berserk, he destroyed the lab facility and with it Rex Mundi’s plans. The would-be “King of the World” barely escaped the Troll’s unstoppable force.
Once he recovered his wits, Cassidy resumed his career as a mercenary — only now he uses his new-found power to his advantage. No longer does he fight in nameless brush wars. Now his jobs include things like single-handedly overthrowing entire nations....or taking out superheroes.
The Troll is normally a solo act, but he’s willing to work with a team, if the price is right, although he’s not much of a “team player” and prefers to take charge, especially when dealing with those who have no prior para-military experience.
He keeps an eye out for any rumors or clues as to the whereabouts of Rex Mundi — because if he ever finds him, he plans on some payback for the monster he has become, although if he can get Rex Mundi (or some other big brain) to fix things so he can retain the Troll’s power but also assume his human form at will, that would be well worth most, if not all, of the wealth from his jobs he has hidden away thus far.
