The Octofather
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Average 3 Average 3 Fair 4 Great 6 Fair 4 Incredible 7
SPECIALTIES
Criminal Expert Mental Resistance
QUALITIES
Advanced Mind
Alien Octopoid Gangster Cliché “Fuggeddabowdit”
POWERS
Telekinesis: The Octofather has Incredible (7) powers of telekinesis, able to move objects with mental power alone, including projecting an invisible protective Force Field around his body.
Telepathy: The Octofather’s greater power, however, is his Amazing (8) telepathy, including powers of Illusion, Mental Blast, and Mind Control, which he uses to retain his influence as a powerful mob boss.
BACKGROUND
At first glance, the Octofather looks like someone put a crime pulp mag and a horror pulp mag into a blender and came up with a gangster with an octopus for a head. Worse, the Octofather need not hide his

appearance—his advanced mental powers enable him to walk most places without a second glance. He always has a few mob lieutenants around him and a woman one each rubbery arm. When he speaks, his digitally-enhanced voice sounds like bad gangster slang processed through a synthesizer.
In truth, the Octofather is one of the N’Cephalos, an advanced, peaceful species from the other side of the galaxy. The Octofather was a bored technician inspired by incoming transmissions from a primitive planet, especially the mobster movies. An avid holo-vid player, the Octofather (his real name is a succession of distinct gurgles) decided to use the planet as his playground. He picked an Earth city and used his abilities to locate and eradicate the local crime bosses, creating his own gang from the remains.
The Octofather often outfits himself with a tommy-gun largely for effect, he rarely uses it. Due to the evolved nature of his species, the
Octofather is actually unused to physical contact and finds earth women strangely appealing. He plays the role of mob boss to the hilt, treating his people like family and taking any treachery as a personal insult.
In spite of not being used to the notion of fighting, the Octofather is no pushover. Far from it—he is stronger than an average human, with greater control over his body’s involuntary responses. In addition, his mind is a formidable weapon, able to flip over a car with a sidelong glance, or easily turn aside bullets and similar primitive weapons.
Unfortunately, the Octofather is not particularly clear on the division between fantasy and reality as we know it. His criminal activities on Earth are nothing more than a game to him—a game he pursues obsessively, but a game nonetheless. Thus he doesn’t want his criminal operation to run too smoothly, that would be boring! No, he wants the challenge of rival bosses, of crusading cops and nosy reporters and, most of all, of heroes trying to bring him down. That’s where the action is. If he happens to break some of his human “playthings” in the process, well ... there are billions of them. A few aren’t going to be missed. Fuggeddabowdit!
