Warbride
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Amazing 8 Incredible 7 Incredible 7 Fair 4 Good 5 Great 6
SPECIALTIES
Athletics Weapons
QUALITIES
Bride of Battle Sisterhood Apostate Scalpel of Civilization
POWERS
Damage Resistance: Warbride’s dense body gives her Poor (2) resistance to damage. When prepared for battle, she wears armor raising her resistance to Good (5).
Immortality: The secrets of the Sisterhood have given Warbride a Good (5) level of immorality, able to return from death in a matter of five hours.
Weapons: Warbride wields a variety of close combat weapons, giving her Good (5) slashing attacks as well as Amazing (8) bludgeoning attacks.
BACKGROUND
For centuries, the secret order known as the Sisterhood has chosen women to become champions of civilization, Brides of Battle, invested
with a mystic power that makes them invincible warriors, able to carry out their duties to the world.
Occasionally, one of the Sisterhood’s chosen vessels has been found wanting, but never before had she been truly mad. Not until Althea, the Warbride, Apostate of the Sisterhood. A survivor of the horrors of war, rescued and raised by the Sisterhood, she became the greatest of them, but turned away from their traditions and laws. Invested with the full measure of their power, she stole more for her own ends. The weak did not need defending, she proclaimed. Like a disease, they needed to be cut away and allowed to perish, and she would be civilization’s razor- sharp scalpel to perform that operation.
A trained assassin and warrior, Warbride sees herself as wise surgeon and gardener to an ill world: She is willing to cut and prune as needed to ensure civilization survives and prospers. Her work may range for assassination of certain influential (or potentially influential) figures to providing a “common threat” to unite others, or eliminating influences she feels do harm, from subversive art and ideas to abusers of women or powerful weapons in the wrong hands. While some of her goals may align with one political entity or another from time to time, her ultimate agenda is too independent and ruthless to be seen as anything other than a threat to the world at large.
THE SISTERHOOD
Agents of the Sisterhood have operated in secret throughout history, in service to the Triumvirate, the three Elder Sisters who oversee the order, carrying out the wishes of the mysterious Ascended Ones. Women from cultures all over the world have been recruited and trained by the Sisterhood to oppose conquerers, dictators, monsters, and worse in the cause of civilization.
A trained warrior of the Sisterhood has abilities similar to Warbride’s, but one level lower and, while long-lived, they lack her immortality. Whether the Sisterhood has given up on pursuing their rogue sister, or if they are in conflict with other secret societies (such as Legion) is left for the Game Master to decide as best suits the series. In some settings “the Sisterhood” may just be a delusion of Warbride’s deranged mind!