Yama King
PROWESS
COORDINATION
STRENGTH
INTELLECT
AWARENESS
WILLPOWER
Incredible 7 Good 5 Great 6 Fair 4 Incredible 7 Incredible 7
SPECIALTIES
Blades Expert
Mental Resistance Master Occult Master
QUALITIES
Hell on Earth
Mandate of the Celestial Bureaucracy Rogue King of the Ninth Hell
POWERS
Death Touch: The Yama King’s very touch is almost certain death, should he wish it, a Supreme (10) supernatural Affliction.
Magic: The Yama King wields Incredible (7) Magic, including Mastery of Blast, Illusion, Telepathy, and Teleportation.
Scythe: At the Yama King’s will, a scythe of indestructible metal appears in his hand. He wields it with Fantastic (9) ability and it inflicts Amazing (8) slashing damage.
Third Eye: The Yama King’s infernal third eye grants him the Super- Senses to Foresee Death and See Through Illusions.
Undying: As a King of Hell, the Yama King has Supreme (10) Immorality and Regeneration, recovering 1 Stamina per page, and returning from death on the page after his destruction.
BACKGROUND
The Chinese have a lot of Hells. Each of these netherworlds is governed by a Yama King, specializing in a particular sort of punishment for specific sins. The Yama King of the First Hell performs the evaluation of souls, weighing their sins and deciding which Hell best suits their punishment, if they are not worthy of reincarnation. At least, that is the Heavenly Mandate of the Celestial Bureaucracy and the proper order of things.
That was until the sorcerer known as Warlock banished his rival to a hell-dimension and upset the balance of things. The Celestial Bureaucracy was thrown into disarray as endless meetings and discussions were scheduled and held about this development. If mortals could use the Hell realms as their own personal prisons, then the mandate of their purpose was in question! Yet the role of the supreme wizard on Earth had always remained inviolate in the Eyes of Heaven.
The Yama King of the Ninth Hell has chosen not to ignore this affront, nor to wait until the endless bickering and discussion of the Bureaucracy can arrive at a Heavenly Mandate, which make take an Age or more. No, he has chosen to act, leaving his throne in the infernal realm empty so he may focus his attention upon the earthly plane and its interfering populace. By upsetting the proper order of things, as the Yama King sees it, humanity has forfeited their right to due process in the judging of souls. That this opportunity aligns perfectly with his agenda is of no moment—it is the clear violation that matters.
So the Yama King schemes to bring about an end to the mortal world. He will moves pieces upon the board and a foolish humanity will unleash its own destruction, after which Hell will reign on Earth, and all souls will be judged (and punished) at once, bringing the system to a perfect, final, and eternal conclusion, an infernal empire where the Yama King of the First Hell will be superfluous, and someone will need to assume his place and power...
The looming threat posed by the Yama King and his schemes can occupy an entire series, with the heroes discovering the first hints of his apocalyptic plans for the world. His influence may first be felt among secret cults in China and places like North Korea, with increasing militarism and threats of war. Ironically, one of the first to become aware of the threat is likely Warlock himself, who may need allies (read: pawns) in order to deal with it without admitting any complicity or responsibility in causing the crisis in the first place.
